https://arxiv.org/abs/2506.15050

*Truncated Proximal Policy Optimization* (Tiantian Fan, Lingjun Liu, Yu Yue, Jiaze Chen, Chengyi Wang, Qiying Yu, Chi Zhang, Zhiqi Lin, Ruofei Zhu, Yufeng Yuan, Xiaochen Zuo, Bole Ma, Mofan Zhang, Gaohong Liu, Ru Zhang, Haotian Zhou, Cong Xie, Ruidong Zhu, Zhi Zhang, Xin Liu, Mingxuan Wang, Lin Yan, Yonghui Wu)

> Recently, test-time scaling Large Language Models (LLMs) have demonstrated exceptional reasoning capabilities across scientific and professional tasks by generating long chains-of-thought (CoT). As a crucial component for developing these reasoning models, reinforcement learning (RL), exemplified by Proximal Policy Optimization (PPO) and its variants, allows models to learn through trial and error. However, PPO can be time-consuming due to its inherent on-policy nature, which is further exacerbated by increasing response lengths. In this work, we propose Truncated Proximal Policy Optimization (T-PPO), a novel extension to PPO that improves training efficiency by streamlining policy update and length-restricted response generation. T-PPO mitigates the issue of low hardware utilization, an inherent drawback of fully synchronized long-generation procedures, where resources often sit idle during the waiting periods for complete rollouts. Our contributions are two-folds. First, we propose Extended Generalized Advantage Estimation (EGAE) for advantage estimation derived from incomplete responses while maintaining the integrity of policy learning. Second, we devise a computationally optimized mechanism that allows for the independent optimization of the policy and value models. By selectively filtering prompt and truncated tokens, this mechanism reduces redundant computations and accelerates the training process without sacrificing convergence performance. We demonstrate the effectiveness and efficacy of T-PPO on AIME 2024 with a 32B base model. The experimental results show that T-PPO improves the training efficiency of reasoning LLMs by up to 2.5x and outperforms its existing competitors.

PPO의 학습 효율화. 생성이 끝나지 않은 궤적에 대해서도 Policy를 학습시키는 것이 요점이군요.

#rl #efficiency 