https://arxiv.org/abs/2507.06167

*Skywork-R1V3 Technical Report* (Wei Shen, Jiangbo Pei, Yi Peng, Xuchen Song, Yang Liu, Jian Peng, Haofeng Sun, Yunzhuo Hao, Peiyu Wang, Yahui Zhou)

> We introduce Skywork-R1V3, an advanced, open-source vision-language model (VLM) that pioneers a new approach to visual reasoning. Its key innovation lies in effectively transferring reasoning skills from text-only Large Language Models (LLMs) to visual tasks. The strong performance of Skywork-R1V3 primarily stems from our elaborate post-training RL framework, which effectively activates and enhances the model's reasoning ability, without the need for additional continue pre-training. Through this framework, we further uncover the fundamental role of the connector module in achieving robust cross-modal alignment for multimodal reasoning models. In addition, we introduce a unique indicator of reasoning capability, the entropy of critical reasoning tokens, which has proven highly effective for checkpoint selection during RL training. Skywork-R1V3 achieves state-of-the-art results on MMMU, significantly improving from 64.3% to 76.0%. This performance matches entry-level human capabilities. Remarkably, our RL-powered post-training approach enables even the 38B parameter model to rival top closed-source VLMs. The implementation successfully transfers mathematical reasoning to other subject-related reasoning tasks. We also include an analysis of curriculum learning and reinforcement finetuning strategies, along with a broader discussion on multimodal reasoning. Skywork-R1V3 represents a significant leap in multimodal reasoning, showcasing RL as a powerful engine for advancing open-source VLM capabilities.

Skywork가 멀티모달 모델을 또 냈군요. 여기에서도 결정적인 토큰의 엔트로피가 중요하다는 분석을 합니다 (https://arxiv.org/abs/2506.01939).

#multimodal #rl #reasoning 