https://arxiv.org/abs/2507.05934

*BlueLM-2.5-3B Technical Report* (Baojiao Xiong, Boheng Chen, Chengzhi Wang, Daxiong Luo, Dongsheng Xu, Dongyang Liu, Fan Yang, Fangyuan Li, Fei Teng, Feng Wang, Fukang Qin, Fuquan Peng, Guanxin Tan, Guozhi Wang, Haibo Yu, Haohao Gao, Heng Liu, Hongbo Yang, Hongjian Zou, Houzheng Shen, Hu Meng, Huan Li, Hui Tan, Jiali Chen, Jianzhao Chen, Jinliang Zhu, Kai Wang, Lei Wu, Liangbing Liu, Liuyang Bian, Liyan He, Long Liu, Peiwen Li, Penggang Shi, Qi Ding, Rui Hu, Shuai Cao, Shuai Ren, Shuang Peng, Teng Xie, Weiji Chen, Weilin Xiang, Weixin Wu, Xi Yin, Xiaoxin Chen, Xu Chen, Yafei Wen, Yan Hu, Yanzhou Yang, Yina Xie, Yinghao Chen, Yixuan Liao, Yu Geng, Yuanjiang Ouyang, Yuanzhuo Yang, Yuehua He, Yushuai Peng, Zhaoxiong Wang, Zheng Wang, Zhibo Zhou, Ziyang Wu)

> We present BlueLM-2.5-3B, a compact and unified dense Multimodal Large Language Model (MLLM) designed for efficient edge-device deployment, offering strong general-purpose and reasoning capabilities. To the best of our knowledge, this is the first 3B-scale MLLM to support both thinking and non-thinking modes, while also enabling explicit control over thinking token budget. BlueLM-2.5-3B is developed through diversified data curation, key data resampling, hybrid heterogeneous reinforcement learning, and a high-performance training infrastructure. Our model achieves superior multimodal capacity while preserving competitive pure-text performance with only 2.9 billion parameters. We conduct comprehensive evaluations across a broad range of multimodal and text-only benchmarks. In thinking mode, BlueLM-2.5-3B achieves comparable performance to Qwen3-4B on text-only benchmarks, and trails the larger Kimi-VL-A3B-16B by only about 5% on average across multimodal evaluations. In non-thinking mode, it outperforms Qwen2.5-VL-3B on the majority of multimodal benchmarks. Additionally, BlueLM-2.5-3B exhibits exceptional data efficiency. All of the aforementioned performance is achieved with substantially less total training data than Qwen2.5-VL-3B and Qwen3-4B. We hope our work contributes to the advancement of high-performance, on-device MLLMs and provides meaningful insights to the research community.

비보의 멀티모달 추론 모델.

#multimodal #rl #reasoning #pretraining 