https://arxiv.org/abs/2509.15185

*Understand Before You Generate: Self-Guided Training for Autoregressive Image Generation* (Xiaoyu Yue, Zidong Wang, Yuqing Wang, Wenlong Zhang, Xihui Liu, Wanli Ouyang, Lei Bai, Luping Zhou)

> Recent studies have demonstrated the importance of high-quality visual representations in image generation and have highlighted the limitations of generative models in image understanding. As a generative paradigm originally designed for natural language, autoregressive models face similar challenges. In this work, we present the first systematic investigation into the mechanisms of applying the next-token prediction paradigm to the visual domain. We identify three key properties that hinder the learning of high-level visual semantics: local and conditional dependence, inter-step semantic inconsistency, and spatial invariance deficiency. We show that these issues can be effectively addressed by introducing self-supervised objectives during training, leading to a novel training framework, Self-guided Training for AutoRegressive models (ST-AR). Without relying on pre-trained representation models, ST-AR significantly enhances the image understanding ability of autoregressive models and leads to improved generation quality. Specifically, ST-AR brings approximately 42% FID improvement for LlamaGen-L and 49% FID improvement for LlamaGen-XL, while maintaining the same sampling strategy.

Enhancing autoregressive image models with additional contrastive loss, attention masking on students and feature distillation from EMA teacher.

#contrastive-learning #autoregressive-model 