https://arxiv.org/abs/2510.10575

*UniFlow: A Unified Pixel Flow Tokenizer for Visual Understanding and Generation* (Zhengrong Yue, Haiyu Zhang, Xiangyu Zeng, Boyu Chen, Chenting Wang, Shaobin Zhuang, Lu Dong, KunPeng Du, Yi Wang, Limin Wang, Yali Wang)

> Tokenizer is a crucial component for both visual understanding and generation. To advance toward the ultimate goal of universal modeling, recent research has focused on developing a unified tokenizer. However, existing tokenizers face a significant performance trade-off between understanding and generation, stemming from the inherent conflict between high-level semantic abstraction and low-level pixel reconstruction. To tackle this challenge, we propose a generic and unified tokenizer, namely UniFlow, by flexibly adapting any visual encoder with a concise reconstruction decoder. Specifically, we introduce layer-wise adaptive self-distillation applied to the well-pretrained visual encoders, which enables UniFlow to simultaneously inherit the strong semantic features for visual understanding and flexibly adapt to model fine-grained details for visual generation. Moreover, we propose a lightweight patch-wise pixel flow decoder, which efficiently achieves high-fidelity pixel reconstruction by modeling a conditional flow from the noisy state back to the patch-wise pixel domain. By leveraging the semantic features as visual conditions for the decoder, we effectively alleviate the training conflicts between understanding and generation. Furthermore, the patch-wise learning strategy simplifies the data distribution, thereby improving training efficiency. Extensive experiments across 13 challenging benchmarks spanning 7 widely studied visual understanding and generation tasks demonstrate that UniFlow achieves a win-win outcome. For instance, our 7B UniFlow-XL not only surpasses the 14B TokenFlow-XL by 7.75% on average understanding benchmarks, but also achieves competitive results in both visual reconstruction and generation, surpassing UniTok by 0.15 in rFID and 0.09 in gFID (without guidance), respectively.

