https://arxiv.org/abs/2510.17800

*Glyph: Scaling Context Windows via Visual-Text Compression* (Jiale Cheng, Yusen Liu, Xinyu Zhang, Yulin Fei, Wenyi Hong, Ruiliang Lyu, Weihan Wang, Zhe Su, Xiaotao Gu, Xiao Liu, Yushi Bai, Jie Tang, Hongning Wang, Minlie Huang)

> Large language models (LLMs) increasingly rely on long-context modeling for tasks such as document understanding, code analysis, and multi-step reasoning. However, scaling context windows to the million-token level brings prohibitive computational and memory costs, limiting the practicality of long-context LLMs. In this work, we take a different perspective-visual context scaling-to tackle this challenge. Instead of extending token-based sequences, we propose Glyph, a framework that renders long texts into images and processes them with vision-language models (VLMs). This approach substantially compresses textual input while preserving semantic information, and we further design an LLM-driven genetic search to identify optimal visual rendering configurations for balancing accuracy and compression. Through extensive experiments, we demonstrate that our method achieves 3-4x token compression while maintaining accuracy comparable to leading LLMs such as Qwen3-8B on various long-context benchmarks. This compression also leads to around 4x faster prefilling and decoding, and approximately 2x faster SFT training. Furthermore, under extreme compression, a 128K-context VLM could scale to handle 1M-token-level text tasks. In addition, the rendered text data benefits real-world multimodal tasks, such as document understanding. Our code and model are released at https://github.com/thu-coai/Glyph.

Long Context를 텍스트 렌더링으로 대응하려는 또다른 시도. 중국에서는 지금 인기 있는 것일지도?

Yet another attempt of the long context by rendering the text. Maybe considered promising now in China?

#long-context #vision-language 