https://arxiv.org/abs/2512.16248

*Sigma-Moe-Tiny Technical Report* (Qingguo Hu, Zhenghao Lin, Ziyue Yang, Yucheng Ding, Xiao Liu, Yuting Jiang, Ruizhe Wang, Tianyu Chen, Zhongxin Guo, Yifan Xiong, Rui Gao, Lei Qu, Jinsong Su, Peng Cheng, Yeyun Gong)

> Mixture-of-Experts (MoE) has emerged as a promising paradigm for foundation models due to its efficient and powerful scalability. In this work, we present Sigma-MoE-Tiny, an MoE language model that achieves the highest sparsity compared to existing open-source models. Sigma-MoE-Tiny employs fine-grained expert segmentation with up to 96 experts per layer, while activating only one expert for each token, resulting in 20B total parameters with just 0.5B activated. The major challenge introduced by such extreme sparsity lies in expert load balancing. We find that the widely-used load balancing loss tends to become ineffective in the lower layers under this setting. To address this issue, we propose a progressive sparsification schedule aiming to balance expert utilization and training stability. Sigma-MoE-Tiny is pre-trained on a diverse and high-quality corpus, followed by post-training to further unlock its capabilities. The entire training process remains remarkably stable, with no occurrence of irrecoverable loss spikes. Comprehensive evaluations reveal that, despite activating only 0.5B parameters, Sigma-MoE-Tiny achieves top-tier performance among counterparts of comparable or significantly larger scale. In addition, we provide an in-depth discussion of load balancing in highly sparse MoE models, offering insights for advancing sparsity in future MoE architectures. Project page: https://qghuxmu.github.io/Sigma-MoE-Tiny Code: https://github.com/microsoft/ltp-megatron-lm

Top-1 routing out of 96 experts. Typical load balancing does not work for this degree of sparsity, especially for lower layers. Thus they used a larger top-K and later turned to top-1. But would this be better compared to common settings?

#moe 