https://arxiv.org/abs/2501.09732

*Inference-Time Scaling for Diffusion Models beyond Scaling Denoising Steps* (Nanye Ma, Shangyuan Tong, Haolin Jia, Hexiang Hu, Yu-Chuan Su, Mingda Zhang, Xuan Yang, Yandong Li, Tommi Jaakkola, Xuhui Jia, Saining Xie)

> Generative models have made significant impacts across various domains, largely due to their ability to scale during training by increasing data, computational resources, and model size, a phenomenon characterized by the scaling laws. Recent research has begun to explore inference-time scaling behavior in Large Language Models (LLMs), revealing how performance can further improve with additional computation during inference. Unlike LLMs, diffusion models inherently possess the flexibility to adjust inference-time computation via the number of denoising steps, although the performance gains typically flatten after a few dozen. In this work, we explore the inference-time scaling behavior of diffusion models beyond increasing denoising steps and investigate how the generation performance can further improve with increased computation. Specifically, we consider a search problem aimed at identifying better noises for the diffusion sampling process. We structure the design space along two axes: the verifiers used to provide feedback, and the algorithms used to find better noise candidates. Through extensive experiments on class-conditioned and text-conditioned image generation benchmarks, our findings reveal that increasing inference-time compute leads to substantial improvements in the quality of samples generated by diffusion models, and with the complicated nature of images, combinations of the components in the framework can be specifically chosen to conform with different application scenario.

디노이징 스텝 증가를 넘어서는 Diffusion에 대한 Inference Time Scaling. 이미지 평가를 위한 Verifier를 두고 탐색 알고리즘을 적용해서 노이즈를 찾는 형태입니다. 탐색 알고리즘을 몇 가지 고안했는데 알고리즘들이 초기 노이즈 지점에서 크게 벗어나기 힘들어서인지 오히려 랜덤 탐색이 강력한 모습이네요.

<english>
Inference time scaling beyond increasing denoising steps. It uses verifier for image evaluations and applying search algorithms to find noises. They devised some search algorithms, but as theses algorithm is hard to escape from the initial noises, random search was quite powerful against sophisticated algorithms.
</english>

#inference-time-scaling #diffusion #search 