https://arxiv.org/abs/2501.12570

*O1-Pruner: Length-Harmonizing Fine-Tuning for O1-Like Reasoning Pruning* (Haotian Luo, Li Shen, Haiying He, Yibo Wang, Shiwei Liu, Wei Li, Naiqiang Tan, Xiaochun Cao, Dacheng Tao)

> Recently, long-thought reasoning LLMs, such as OpenAI's O1, adopt extended reasoning processes similar to how humans ponder over complex problems. This reasoning paradigm significantly enhances the model's problem-solving abilities and has achieved promising results. However, long-thought reasoning process leads to a substantial increase in inference time. A pressing challenge is reducing the inference overhead of long-thought LLMs while ensuring accuracy. In this paper, we experimentally demonstrate that long-thought reasoning models struggle to effectively allocate token budgets based on problem difficulty and reasoning redundancies. To address this, we propose Length-Harmonizing Fine-Tuning (O1-Pruner), aiming at minimizing reasoning overhead while maintaining accuracy. This effective fine-tuning method first estimates the LLM's baseline performance through pre-sampling and then uses RL-style fine-tuning to encourage the model to generate shorter reasoning processes under accuracy constraints. This allows the model to achieve efficient reasoning with lower redundancy while maintaining accuracy. Experiments on various mathematical reasoning benchmarks show that O1-Pruner not only significantly reduces inference overhead but also achieves higher accuracy, providing a novel and promising solution to this challenge. Our code is coming soon at https://github.com/StarDewXXX/O1-Pruner

RL CoT 모델의 추론 토큰을 감소시키기 위한 Length Penalty 설계. Kimi 1.5에서도 이러한 Length Penalty를 사용했죠. (https://arxiv.org/abs/2501.12599)

<english>
Design of length penalty for reducing though tokens of RL CoT models. Kimi 1.5 also employed length penalty (https://arxiv.org/abs/2501.12599).
</english>

#reasoning #efficiency #rl

# Links

