https://arxiv.org/abs/2502.03387

*LIMO: Less is More for Reasoning* (Yixin Ye, Zhen Huang, Yang Xiao, Ethan Chern, Shijie Xia, Pengfei Liu)

> We present a fundamental discovery that challenges our understanding of how complex reasoning emerges in large language models. While conventional wisdom suggests that sophisticated reasoning tasks demand extensive training data (>100,000 examples), we demonstrate that complex mathematical reasoning abilities can be effectively elicited with surprisingly few examples. Through comprehensive experiments, our proposed model LIMO demonstrates unprecedented performance in mathematical reasoning. With merely 817 curated training samples, LIMO achieves 57.1% accuracy on AIME and 94.8% on MATH, improving from previous SFT-based models' 6.5% and 59.2% respectively, while only using 1% of the training data required by previous approaches. LIMO demonstrates exceptional out-of-distribution generalization, achieving 40.5% absolute improvement across 10 diverse benchmarks, outperforming models trained on 100x more data, challenging the notion that SFT leads to memorization rather than generalization. Based on these results, we propose the Less-Is-More Reasoning Hypothesis (LIMO Hypothesis): In foundation models where domain knowledge has been comprehensively encoded during pre-training, sophisticated reasoning capabilities can emerge through minimal but precisely orchestrated demonstrations of cognitive processes. This hypothesis posits that the elicitation threshold for complex reasoning is determined by two key factors: (1) the completeness of the model's encoded knowledge foundation during pre-training, and (2) the effectiveness of post-training examples as "cognitive templates" that show the model how to utilize its knowledge base to solve complex reasoning tasks. To facilitate reproducibility and future research in data-efficient reasoning, we release LIMO as a comprehensive open-source suite at https://github.com/GAIR-NLP/LIMO.

어려운 문제에 좋은 사고 과정이 포함된 소규모 데이터로 학습시키는 것으로 추론 능력을 끌어낼 수 있다는 결과. 베이스 모델이 충분한 능력을 갖추고 있다면 그걸 사용하도록 학습시키는 것으로 충분하다는 것.

<english>
The study suggesting we can induce reasoning abilities by training small scale data contains hard problems and high quality reasoning steps. It suggest that if base model have enough capacities then it is sufficient to train it to use that.
</english>

#reasoning 