https://arxiv.org/abs/2502.06563

*Large Language Models Meet Symbolic Provers for Logical Reasoning Evaluation* (Chengwen Qi, Ren Ma, Bowen Li, He Du, Binyuan Hui, Jinwang Wu, Yuanjun Laili, Conghui He)

> First-order logic (FOL) reasoning, which involves sequential deduction, is pivotal for intelligent systems and serves as a valuable task for evaluating reasoning capabilities, particularly in chain-of-thought (CoT) contexts. Existing benchmarks often rely on extensive human annotation or handcrafted templates, making it difficult to achieve the necessary complexity, scalability, and diversity for robust evaluation. To address these limitations, we propose a novel framework called ProverGen that synergizes the generative strengths of Large Language Models (LLMs) with the rigor and precision of symbolic provers, enabling the creation of a scalable, diverse, and high-quality FOL reasoning dataset, ProverQA. ProverQA is also distinguished by its inclusion of accessible and logically coherent intermediate reasoning steps for each problem. Our evaluation shows that state-of-the-art LLMs struggle to solve ProverQA problems, even with CoT prompting, highlighting the dataset's challenging nature. We also finetune Llama3.1-8B-Instruct on a separate training set generated by our framework. The finetuned model demonstrates consistent improvements on both in-distribution and out-of-distribution test sets, suggesting the value of our proposed data generation framework. Code available at: https://github.com/opendatalab/ProverGen

1차 술어 논리 문제들을 생성하기 위한 프레임워크. 논리 문제는 문제 생성이 가능한 영역이죠. 다만 논리학 냄새가 좀 덜 나게 만들 수 있는 방법이 있을까도 문제가 될 것 같네요.

<english>
Framework for synthesizing first order logic problems. Logic is domain that can be synthesized and validated. But it would be better if the problems feel less like formal logic.
</english>

#synthetic-data #reasoning 