https://arxiv.org/abs/2503.09516

*Search-R1: Training LLMs to Reason and Leverage Search Engines with Reinforcement Learning* (Bowen Jin, Hansi Zeng, Zhenrui Yue, Dong Wang, Hamed Zamani, Jiawei Han)

> Efficiently acquiring external knowledge and up-to-date information is essential for effective reasoning and text generation in large language models (LLMs). Retrieval augmentation and tool-use training approaches where a search engine is treated as a tool lack complex multi-turn retrieval flexibility or require large-scale supervised data. Prompting advanced LLMs with reasoning capabilities during inference to use search engines is not optimal, since the LLM does not learn how to optimally interact with the search engine. This paper introduces Search-R1, an extension of the DeepSeek-R1 model where the LLM learns -- solely through reinforcement learning (RL) -- to autonomously generate (multiple) search queries during step-by-step reasoning with real-time retrieval. Search-R1 optimizes LLM rollouts with multi-turn search interactions, leveraging retrieved token masking for stable RL training and a simple outcome-based reward function. Experiments on seven question-answering datasets show that Search-R1 improves performance by 26% (Qwen2.5-7B), 21% (Qwen2.5-3B), and 10% (LLaMA3.2-3B) over SOTA baselines. This paper further provides empirical insights into RL optimization methods, LLM choices, and response length dynamics in retrieval-augmented reasoning. The code and model checkpoints are available at https://github.com/PeterGriffinJin/Search-R1.

R1-Searcher에 이어 Search-R1이 나왔군요. (https://arxiv.org/abs/2503.05592) RL을 통해 에이전트를 만드는 자연스러운 순서겠죠. 그런데 단답을 넘어 장문의 리포트를 쓸 수 있게 하는 디자인이 중요한 다음 단계겠네요.

<english>
Following R1-Searcher, Search-R1 came out (https://arxiv.org/abs/2503.05592). It is natural progression to build agents using RL. Important next step would be generate long reports beyond short answers.
</english>

#rl #agent 