https://arxiv.org/abs/2503.13427

*xLSTM 7B: A Recurrent LLM for Fast and Efficient Inference* (Maximilian Beck, Korbinian Pöppel, Phillip Lippe, Richard Kurle, Patrick M. Blies, Günter Klambauer, Sebastian Böck, Sepp Hochreiter)

> Recent breakthroughs in solving reasoning, math and coding problems with Large Language Models (LLMs) have been enabled by investing substantial computation budgets at inference time. Therefore, inference speed is one of the most critical properties of LLM architectures, and there is a growing need for LLMs that are efficient and fast at inference. Recently, LLMs built on the xLSTM architecture have emerged as a powerful alternative to Transformers, offering linear compute scaling with sequence length and constant memory usage, both highly desirable properties for efficient inference. However, such xLSTM-based LLMs have yet to be scaled to larger models and assessed and compared with respect to inference speed and efficiency. In this work, we introduce xLSTM 7B, a 7-billion-parameter LLM that combines xLSTM's architectural benefits with targeted optimizations for fast and efficient inference. Our experiments demonstrate that xLSTM 7B achieves performance on downstream tasks comparable to other similar-sized LLMs, while providing significantly faster inference speeds and greater efficiency compared to Llama- and Mamba-based LLMs. These results establish xLSTM 7B as the fastest and most efficient 7B LLM, offering a solution for tasks that require large amounts of test-time computation. Our work highlights xLSTM's potential as a foundational architecture for methods building on heavy use of LLM inference. Our model weights, model code and training code are open-source.

xLSTM의 대규모 학습 결과. 결국 병렬화가 어려운 sLSTM은 빼고 mLSTM만 채택했군요.

<english>
Large scale training result of xLSTM. They removed sLSTM which is hard to parallelize and adopted just mLSTM.
</english>

#state-space-model 