https://arxiv.org/abs/2503.08377

*Layton: Latent Consistency Tokenizer for 1024-pixel Image Reconstruction and Generation by 256 Tokens* (Qingsong Xie, Zhao Zhang, Zhe Huang, Yanhao Zhang, Haonan Lu, Zhenyu Yang)

> Image tokenization has significantly advanced visual generation and multimodal modeling, particularly when paired with autoregressive models. However, current methods face challenges in balancing efficiency and fidelity: high-resolution image reconstruction either requires an excessive number of tokens or compromises critical details through token reduction. To resolve this, we propose Latent Consistency Tokenizer (Layton) that bridges discrete visual tokens with the compact latent space of pre-trained Latent Diffusion Models (LDMs), enabling efficient representation of 1024x1024 images using only 256 tokens-a 16 times compression over VQGAN. Layton integrates a transformer encoder, a quantized codebook, and a latent consistency decoder. Direct application of LDM as the decoder results in color and brightness discrepancies. Thus, we convert it to latent consistency decoder, reducing multi-step sampling to 1-2 steps for direct pixel-level supervision. Experiments demonstrate Layton's superiority in high-fidelity reconstruction, with 10.8 reconstruction Frechet Inception Distance on MSCOCO-2017 5K benchmark for 1024x1024 image reconstruction. We also extend Layton to a text-to-image generation model, LaytonGen, working in autoregression. It achieves 0.73 score on GenEval benchmark, surpassing current state-of-the-art methods. The code and model will be released.

#tokenizer 