https://arxiv.org/abs/2504.12216

*d1: Scaling Reasoning in Diffusion Large Language Models via Reinforcement Learning* (Siyan Zhao, Devaansh Gupta, Qinqing Zheng, Aditya Grover)

> Recent large language models (LLMs) have demonstrated strong reasoning capabilities that benefits from online reinforcement learning (RL). These capabilities have primarily been demonstrated within the left-to-right autoregressive (AR) generation paradigm. In contrast, non-autoregressive paradigms based on diffusion generate text in a coarse-to-fine manner. Although recent diffusion-based large language models (dLLMs) have achieved competitive language modeling performance compared to their AR counterparts, it remains unclear if dLLMs can also leverage recent advances in LLM reasoning. To this end, we propose d1, a framework to adapt pre-trained masked dLLMs into reasoning models via a combination of supervised finetuning (SFT) and RL. Specifically, we develop and extend techniques to improve reasoning in pretrained dLLMs: (a) we utilize a masked SFT technique to distill knowledge and instill self-improvement behavior directly from existing datasets, and (b) we introduce a novel critic-free, policy-gradient based RL algorithm called diffu-GRPO. Through empirical studies, we investigate the performance of different post-training recipes on multiple mathematical and logical reasoning benchmarks. We find that d1 yields the best performance and significantly improves performance of a state-of-the-art dLLM.

Diffusion LM에 대한 추론 RL인데 실질적으로는 Diffusion LM을 위한 GRPO를 설계했네요.

<english>
Reasoning RL for diffusion LM, and essentially the authors devised GRPO for diffusion LM.
</english>

#rl #reasoning 