https://arxiv.org/abs/2504.10483

*REPA-E: Unlocking VAE for End-to-End Tuning with Latent Diffusion Transformers* (Xingjian Leng, Jaskirat Singh, Yunzhong Hou, Zhenchang Xing, Saining Xie, Liang Zheng)

> In this paper we tackle a fundamental question: "Can we train latent diffusion models together with the variational auto-encoder (VAE) tokenizer in an end-to-end manner?" Traditional deep-learning wisdom dictates that end-to-end training is often preferable when possible. However, for latent diffusion transformers, it is observed that end-to-end training both VAE and diffusion-model using standard diffusion-loss is ineffective, even causing a degradation in final performance. We show that while diffusion loss is ineffective, end-to-end training can be unlocked through the representation-alignment (REPA) loss -- allowing both VAE and diffusion model to be jointly tuned during the training process. Despite its simplicity, the proposed training recipe (REPA-E) shows remarkable performance; speeding up diffusion model training by over 17x and 45x over REPA and vanilla training recipes, respectively. Interestingly, we observe that end-to-end tuning with REPA-E also improves the VAE itself; leading to improved latent space structure and downstream generation performance. In terms of final performance, our approach sets a new state-of-the-art; achieving FID of 1.26 and 1.83 with and without classifier-free guidance on ImageNet 256 x 256. Code is available at https://end2end-diffusion.github.io.

VAE와 Diffusion을 같이 학습시키려는 시도. 여기에서도 Representation에 대해 DINOv2로 Regularization을 걸어주는 게 중요했네요 (https://arxiv.org/abs/2504.08736).

<english>
Attempt to train VAE and diffusion simultaneously. Similar to previous works, it was important to regularize on representation using DINOv2 was important in this work (https://arxiv.org/abs/2504.08736).
</english>

#tokenizer #diffusion 