https://arxiv.org/abs/2505.05422

*TokLIP: Marry Visual Tokens to CLIP for Multimodal Comprehension and Generation* (Haokun Lin, Teng Wang, Yixiao Ge, Yuying Ge, Zhichao Lu, Ying Wei, Qingfu Zhang, Zhenan Sun, Ying Shan)

> Pioneering token-based works such as Chameleon and Emu3 have established a foundation for multimodal unification but face challenges of high training computational overhead and limited comprehension performance due to a lack of high-level semantics. In this paper, we introduce TokLIP, a visual tokenizer that enhances comprehension by semanticizing vector-quantized (VQ) tokens and incorporating CLIP-level semantics while enabling end-to-end multimodal autoregressive training with standard VQ tokens. TokLIP integrates a low-level discrete VQ tokenizer with a ViT-based token encoder to capture high-level continuous semantics. Unlike previous approaches (e.g., VILA-U) that discretize high-level features, TokLIP disentangles training objectives for comprehension and generation, allowing the direct application of advanced VQ tokenizers without the need for tailored quantization operations. Our empirical results demonstrate that TokLIP achieves exceptional data efficiency, empowering visual tokens with high-level semantic understanding while enhancing low-level generative capacity, making it well-suited for autoregressive Transformers in both comprehension and generation tasks. The code and models are available at https://github.com/TencentARC/TokLIP.

VQ로 양자화한 다음 Autoregressive 모델을 올려 CLIP 학습을 한 이미지 토크나이저. BEiT 같은 느낌이군요. (https://arxiv.org/abs/2106.08254)

<english>
An image tokenizer that combining autoregressive model on VQ quantization and did CLIP training on it. It feels similar to BEiT (https://arxiv.org/abs/2106.08254).
</english>

#vq #tokenizer #clip 