https://arxiv.org/abs/2505.02835

*R1-Reward: Training Multimodal Reward Model Through Stable Reinforcement Learning* (Yi-Fan Zhang, Xingyu Lu, Xiao Hu, Chaoyou Fu, Bin Wen, Tianke Zhang, Changyi Liu, Kaiyu Jiang, Kaibing Chen, Kaiyu Tang, Haojie Ding, Jiankang Chen, Fan Yang, Zhang Zhang, Tingting Gao, Liang Wang)

> Multimodal Reward Models (MRMs) play a crucial role in enhancing the performance of Multimodal Large Language Models (MLLMs). While recent advancements have primarily focused on improving the model structure and training data of MRMs, there has been limited exploration into the effectiveness of long-term reasoning capabilities for reward modeling and how to activate these capabilities in MRMs. In this paper, we explore how Reinforcement Learning (RL) can be used to improve reward modeling. Specifically, we reformulate the reward modeling problem as a rule-based RL task. However, we observe that directly applying existing RL algorithms, such as Reinforce++, to reward modeling often leads to training instability or even collapse due to the inherent limitations of these algorithms. To address this issue, we propose the StableReinforce algorithm, which refines the training loss, advantage estimation strategy, and reward design of existing RL methods. These refinements result in more stable training dynamics and superior performance. To facilitate MRM training, we collect 200K preference data from diverse datasets. Our reward model, R1-Reward, trained using the StableReinforce algorithm on this dataset, significantly improves performance on multimodal reward modeling benchmarks. Compared to previous SOTA models, R1-Reward achieves a $8.4\%$ improvement on the VL Reward-Bench and a $14.3\%$ improvement on the Multimodal Reward Bench. Moreover, with more inference compute, R1-Reward's performance is further enhanced, highlighting the potential of RL algorithms in optimizing MRMs.

Multimodal Reasoning Reward Model. 다들 이런 작업을 하고 있군요. 여기서는 학습이 불안정해서 RL 알고리즘에 대한 조정이 필요했다고 합니다.

<english>
Multimodal reasoning reward model. Everybody doing similar works. The author says that they undergone training instabilities, thus adjusted RL algorithms.
</english>

#rl #reasoning #reward-model #multimodal 