https://arxiv.org/abs/2505.07538

*Discrete Visual Tokens of Autoregression, by Diffusion, and for Reasoning* (Bohan Wang, Zhongqi Yue, Fengda Zhang, Shuo Chen, Li'an Bi, Junzhe Zhang, Xue Song, Kennard Yanting Chan, Jiachun Pan, Weijia Wu, Mingze Zhou, Wang Lin, Kaihang Pan, Saining Zhang, Liyu Jia, Wentao Hu, Wei Zhao, Hanwang Zhang)

> We completely discard the conventional spatial prior in image representation and introduce a novel discrete visual tokenizer: Self-consistency Tokenizer (Selftok). At its design core, we compose an autoregressive (AR) prior -- mirroring the causal structure of language -- into visual tokens by using the reverse diffusion process of image generation. The AR property makes Selftok fundamentally distinct from traditional spatial tokens in the following two key ways: - Selftok offers an elegant and minimalist approach to unify diffusion and AR for vision-language models (VLMs): By representing images with Selftok tokens, we can train a VLM using a purely discrete autoregressive architecture -- like that in LLMs -- without requiring additional modules or training objectives. - We theoretically show that the AR prior satisfies the Bellman equation, whereas the spatial prior does not. Therefore, Selftok supports reinforcement learning (RL) for visual generation with effectiveness comparable to that achieved in LLMs. Besides the AR property, Selftok is also a SoTA tokenizer that achieves a favorable trade-off between high-quality reconstruction and compression rate. We use Selftok to build a pure AR VLM for both visual comprehension and generation tasks. Impressively, without using any text-image training pairs, a simple policy gradient RL working in the visual tokens can significantly boost the visual generation benchmark, surpassing all the existing models by a large margin. Therefore, we believe that Selftok effectively addresses the long-standing challenge that visual tokens cannot support effective RL. When combined with the well-established strengths of RL in LLMs, this brings us one step closer to realizing a truly multimodal LLM. Project Page: https://selftok-team.github.io/report/.

Diffusion Objective에 이미지 토큰을 결합해 Autoregressive한 구조를 갖는 Discrete Token을 생성하는 토크나이저를 학습. 논문이 굉장히 야심찬데 흥미롭네요.

<english>
Training a tokenizer model that tokenizes image into discrete tokens with autoregressive structure by conditioning diffusion objectives on image tokens. The paper is quite ambitious, and interesting.
</english>

#vq #diffusion #autoregressive-model 