https://arxiv.org/abs/2505.04519

*Pangu Ultra MoE: How to Train Your Big MoE on Ascend NPUs* (Yehui Tang, Yichun Yin, Yaoyuan Wang, Hang Zhou, Yu Pan, Wei Guo, Ziyang Zhang, Miao Rang, Fangcheng Liu, Naifu Zhang, Binghan Li, Yonghan Dong, Xiaojun Meng, Yasheng Wang, Dong Li, Yin Li, Dandan Tu, Can Chen, Youliang Yan, Fisher Yu, Ruiming Tang, Yunhe Wang, Botian Huang, Bo Wang, Boxiao Liu, Changzheng Zhang, Da Kuang, Fei Liu, Gang Huang, Jiansheng Wei, Jiarui Qin, Jie Ran, Jinpeng Li, Jun Zhao, Liang Dai, Lin Li, Liqun Deng, Peifeng Qin, Pengyuan Zeng, Qiang Gu, Shaohua Tang, Shengjun Cheng, Tao Gao, Tao Yu, Tianshu Li, Tianyu Bi, Wei He, Weikai Mao, Wenyong Huang, Wulong Liu, Xiabing Li, Xianzhi Yu, Xueyu Wu, Xu He, Yangkai Du, Yan Xu, Ye Tian, Yimeng Wu, Yongbing Huang, Yong Tian, Yong Zhu, Yue Li, Yufei Wang, Yuhang Gai, Yujun Li, Yu Luo, Yunsheng Ni, Yusen Sun, Zelin Chen, Zhe Liu, Zhicheng Liu, Zhipeng Tu, Zilin Ding, Zongyuan Zhan)

> Sparse large language models (LLMs) with Mixture of Experts (MoE) and close to a trillion parameters are dominating the realm of most capable language models. However, the massive model scale poses significant challenges for the underlying software and hardware systems. In this paper, we aim to uncover a recipe to harness such scale on Ascend NPUs. The key goals are better usage of the computing resources under the dynamic sparse model structures and materializing the expected performance gain on the actual hardware. To select model configurations suitable for Ascend NPUs without repeatedly running the expensive experiments, we leverage simulation to compare the trade-off of various model hyperparameters. This study led to Pangu Ultra MoE, a sparse LLM with 718 billion parameters, and we conducted experiments on the model to verify the simulation results. On the system side, we dig into Expert Parallelism to optimize the communication between NPU devices to reduce the synchronization overhead. We also optimize the memory efficiency within the devices to further reduce the parameter and activation management overhead. In the end, we achieve an MFU of 30.0% when training Pangu Ultra MoE, with performance comparable to that of DeepSeek R1, on 6K Ascend NPUs, and demonstrate that the Ascend system is capable of harnessing all the training stages of the state-of-the-art language models. Extensive experiments indicate that our recipe can lead to efficient training of large-scale sparse language models with MoE. We also study the behaviors of such models for future reference.

화웨이의 Ascend를 사용한 모델 학습 리포트 시리즈인데 MoE 세팅에 관해서도 (로드 밸런싱 등) 흥미로운 점이 많군요.

<english>
One of the series of model training report using Ascend from Huawei. But there are many interesting points regarding settings for MoE, like load balancing.
</english>

#moe 