https://arxiv.org/abs/2505.05472

*Mogao: An Omni Foundation Model for Interleaved Multi-Modal Generation* (Chao Liao, Liyang Liu, Xun Wang, Zhengxiong Luo, Xinyu Zhang, Wenliang Zhao, Jie Wu, Liang Li, Zhi Tian, Weilin Huang)

> Recent progress in unified models for image understanding and generation has been impressive, yet most approaches remain limited to single-modal generation conditioned on multiple modalities. In this paper, we present Mogao, a unified framework that advances this paradigm by enabling interleaved multi-modal generation through a causal approach. Mogao integrates a set of key technical improvements in architecture design, including a deep-fusion design, dual vision encoders, interleaved rotary position embeddings, and multi-modal classifier-free guidance, which allow it to harness the strengths of both autoregressive models for text generation and diffusion models for high-quality image synthesis. These practical improvements also make Mogao particularly effective to process interleaved sequences of text and images arbitrarily. To further unlock the potential of unified models, we introduce an efficient training strategy on a large-scale, in-house dataset specifically curated for joint text and image generation. Extensive experiments show that Mogao not only achieves state-of-the-art performance in multi-modal understanding and text-to-image generation, but also excels in producing high-quality, coherent interleaved outputs. Its emergent capabilities in zero-shot image editing and compositional generation highlight Mogao as a practical omni-modal foundation model, paving the way for future development and scaling the unified multi-modal systems.

Interleaved 이미지 인식-생성 모델. VAE와 ViT 토큰을 동시에 사용하고 이미지 생성은 Rectified Flow로 처리했군요.

<english>
Interleaved image understanding and generation model. They used VAE and ViT tokens simultaenously and dealt image generation using rectified flow.
</english>

#multimodal #flow-matching #image-generation 