https://arxiv.org/abs/2505.24864

*ProRL: Prolonged Reinforcement Learning Expands Reasoning Boundaries in Large Language Models* (Mingjie Liu, Shizhe Diao, Ximing Lu, Jian Hu, Xin Dong, Yejin Choi, Jan Kautz, Yi Dong)

> Recent advances in reasoning-centric language models have highlighted reinforcement learning (RL) as a promising method for aligning models with verifiable rewards. However, it remains contentious whether RL truly expands a model's reasoning capabilities or merely amplifies high-reward outputs already latent in the base model's distribution, and whether continually scaling up RL compute reliably leads to improved reasoning performance. In this work, we challenge prevailing assumptions by demonstrating that prolonged RL (ProRL) training can uncover novel reasoning strategies that are inaccessible to base models, even under extensive sampling. We introduce ProRL, a novel training methodology that incorporates KL divergence control, reference policy resetting, and a diverse suite of tasks. Our empirical analysis reveals that RL-trained models consistently outperform base models across a wide range of pass@k evaluations, including scenarios where base models fail entirely regardless of the number of attempts. We further show that reasoning boundary improvements correlates strongly with task competence of base model and training duration, suggesting that RL can explore and populate new regions of solution space over time. These findings offer new insights into the conditions under which RL meaningfully expands reasoning boundaries in language models and establish a foundation for future work on long-horizon RL for reasoning. We release model weights to support further research: https://huggingface.co/nvidia/Nemotron-Research-Reasoning-Qwen-1.5B

RL로 새로운 능력을 부여하는 것이 가능한가? 잘 하니까 되는 것 같다고 하네요. 다양한 과제를 통한 충분한 학습, Clip Higher 트릭과 샘플링 온도, KL Penalty에 대한 적절한 통제. 엔트로피 문제를 (https://arxiv.org/abs/2505.22617, https://arxiv.org/abs/2505.22312) 잘 통제하면 충분히 더 나아갈 수 있다는 의미 같군요.

<english>
Is it possible to induce new capability using RL? This paper suggest it is possible if you did it well. Enough training with diverse tasks, clip higher tricks and sampling temperatures, and adequate control on KL penalty. I think it means if we control well entropy problems (https://arxiv.org/abs/2505.22617, https://arxiv.org/abs/2505.22312) then we can advance further.
</english>

#rl #reasoning 