https://arxiv.org/abs/2505.21411

*Pangu Pro MoE: Mixture of Grouped Experts for Efficient Sparsity* (Yehui Tang, Xiaosong Li, Fangcheng Liu, Wei Guo, Hang Zhou, Yaoyuan Wang, Kai Han, Xianzhi Yu, Jinpeng Li, Hui Zang, Fei Mi, Xiaojun Meng, Zhicheng Liu, Hanting Chen, Binfan Zheng, Can Chen, Youliang Yan, Ruiming Tang, Peifeng Qin, Xinghao Chen, Dacheng Tao, Yunhe Wang (and Other Contributors))

> The surgence of Mixture of Experts (MoE) in Large Language Models promises a small price of execution cost for a much larger model parameter count and learning capacity, because only a small fraction of parameters are activated for each input token. However, it is commonly observed that some experts are activated far more often than others, leading to system inefficiency when running the experts on different devices in parallel. Therefore, we introduce Mixture of Grouped Experts (MoGE), which groups the experts during selection and balances the expert workload better than MoE in nature. It constrains tokens to activate an equal number of experts within each predefined expert group. When a model execution is distributed on multiple devices, this architectural design ensures a balanced computational load across devices, significantly enhancing throughput, particularly for the inference phase. Further, we build Pangu Pro MoE on Ascend NPUs, a sparse model based on MoGE with 72 billion total parameters, 16 billion of which are activated for each token. The configuration of Pangu Pro MoE is optimized for Ascend 300I Duo and 800I A2 through extensive system simulation studies. Our experiments indicate that MoGE indeed leads to better expert load balancing and more efficient execution for both model training and inference on Ascend NPUs. The inference performance of Pangu Pro MoE achieves 1148 tokens/s per card and can be further improved to 1528 tokens/s per card by speculative acceleration, outperforming comparable 32B and 72B Dense models. Furthermore, we achieve an excellent cost-to-performance ratio for model inference on Ascend 300I Duo.Our studies show that Ascend NPUs are capable of training Pangu Pro MoE with massive parallelization to make it a leading model within the sub-100B total parameter class, outperforming prominent open-source models like GLM-Z1-32B and Qwen3-32B.

Expert들을 그룹으로 나눠 각 그룹에서 일부만 선택하도록 만드는 방식이군요. DeepSeek의 Device Limited Routing의 반대 버전이네요.

<english>
A load balancing technique by split experts into groups and select only K experts from each groups. It is reversal of device limited routing from DeepSeek.
</english>

#moe #efficiency 