https://arxiv.org/abs/2505.23735

*ATLAS: Learning to Optimally Memorize the Context at Test Time* (Ali Behrouz, Zeman Li, Praneeth Kacham, Majid Daliri, Yuan Deng, Peilin Zhong, Meisam Razaviyayn, Vahab Mirrokni)

> Transformers have been established as the most popular backbones in sequence modeling, mainly due to their effectiveness in in-context retrieval tasks and the ability to learn at scale. Their quadratic memory and time complexity, however, bound their applicability in longer sequences and so has motivated researchers to explore effective alternative architectures such as modern recurrent neural networks (a.k.a long-term recurrent memory module). Despite their recent success in diverse downstream tasks, they struggle in tasks that requires long context understanding and extrapolation to longer sequences. We observe that these shortcomings come from three disjoint aspects in their design: (1) limited memory capacity that is bounded by the architecture of memory and feature mapping of the input; (2) online nature of update, i.e., optimizing the memory only with respect to the last input; and (3) less expressive management of their fixed-size memory. To enhance all these three aspects, we present ATLAS, a long-term memory module with high capacity that learns to memorize the context by optimizing the memory based on the current and past tokens, overcoming the online nature of long-term memory models. Building on this insight, we present a new family of Transformer-like architectures, called DeepTransformers, that are strict generalizations of the original Transformer architecture. Our experimental results on language modeling, common-sense reasoning, recall-intensive, and long-context understanding tasks show that ATLAS surpasses the performance of Transformers and recent linear recurrent models. ATLAS further improves the long context performance of Titans, achieving +80\% accuracy in 10M context length of BABILong benchmark.

Test Time Train 계통 연구를 계속하고 있네요. 메모리를 매 입력에 대해서만 업데이트 하는 것이 아니라 일정한 컨텍스트에 대해 업데이트하도록 했군요.

<english>
Test Time Train research continues. Instead of updating memory for each inputs, omega rule allows to update on some contexts.
</english>

#state-space-model #transformer 