https://arxiv.org/abs/2506.14965

*Revisiting Reinforcement Learning for LLM Reasoning from A Cross-Domain Perspective* (Zhoujun Cheng, Shibo Hao, Tianyang Liu, Fan Zhou, Yutao Xie, Feng Yao, Yuexin Bian, Yonghao Zhuang, Nilabjo Dey, Yuheng Zha, Yi Gu, Kun Zhou, Yuqi Wang, Yuan Li, Richard Fan, Jianshu She, Chengqian Gao, Abulhair Saparov, Haonan Li, Taylor W. Killian, Mikhail Yurochkin, Zhengzhong Liu, Eric P. Xing, Zhiting Hu)

> Reinforcement learning (RL) has emerged as a promising approach to improve large language model (LLM) reasoning, yet most open efforts focus narrowly on math and code, limiting our understanding of its broader applicability to general reasoning. A key challenge lies in the lack of reliable, scalable RL reward signals across diverse reasoning domains. We introduce Guru, a curated RL reasoning corpus of 92K verifiable examples spanning six reasoning domains--Math, Code, Science, Logic, Simulation, and Tabular--each built through domain-specific reward design, deduplication, and filtering to ensure reliability and effectiveness for RL training. Based on Guru, we systematically revisit established findings in RL for LLM reasoning and observe significant variation across domains. For example, while prior work suggests that RL primarily elicits existing knowledge from pretrained models, our results reveal a more nuanced pattern: domains frequently seen during pretraining (Math, Code, Science) easily benefit from cross-domain RL training, while domains with limited pretraining exposure (Logic, Simulation, and Tabular) require in-domain training to achieve meaningful performance gains, suggesting that RL is likely to facilitate genuine skill acquisition. Finally, we present Guru-7B and Guru-32B, two models that achieve state-of-the-art performance among open models RL-trained with publicly available data, outperforming best baselines by 7.9% and 6.7% on our 17-task evaluation suite across six reasoning domains. We also show that our models effectively improve the Pass@k performance of their base models, particularly on complex tasks less likely to appear in pretraining data. We release data, models, training and evaluation code to facilitate general-purpose reasoning at: https://github.com/LLM360/Reasoning360

다양한 도메인의 데이터로 RL을 진행했을 때 추론 능력이 다른 도메인에서 어떻게 나타나는지에 대한 연구. 프리트레이닝에 많이 포함된 수학, 코드, 과학의 경우에는 다른 도메인으로 학습해도 성능 향상이 뚜렷한데 많이 포함되지 않은 도메인은 그 도메인의 데이터가 필요하군요. 그런데 이걸 반대로 RL을 통해 프리트레이닝에 많이 포함되지 않은 도메인에 대해서도 능력을 함양할 수 있다는 증거로 분석했네요.

<english>
The study on when RL is done on diverse domains of data how reasoning ability emerges on the other domains. Domains like math, code, science, which is included a lot on pretraining has apparent performance improvements even when trained on the other domain data, but domains not much included in pretraining requires data with that specific domain. But the authors analyzed that, contrastly, it could be an evidence of it is possible to improve performances even on the domains not much included in pretraining with RL.
</english>

#rlhf #reasoning 