https://arxiv.org/abs/2508.00222

*RL-PLUS: Countering Capability Boundary Collapse of LLMs in Reinforcement Learning with Hybrid-policy Optimization* (Yihong Dong, Xue Jiang, Yongding Tao, Huanyu Liu, Kechi Zhang, Lili Mou, Rongyu Cao, Yingwei Ma, Jue Chen, Binhua Li, Zhi Jin, Fei Huang, Yongbin Li, Ge Li)

> Reinforcement Learning with Verifiable Reward (RLVR) has significantly advanced the complex reasoning abilities of Large Language Models (LLMs). However, it struggles to break through the inherent capability boundaries of the base LLM, due to its inherently on-policy strategy with LLM's immense action space and sparse reward. Further, RLVR can lead to the capability boundary collapse, narrowing the LLM's problem-solving scope. To address this problem, we propose RL-PLUS, a novel approach that synergizes internal exploitation (i.e., Thinking) with external data (i.e., Learning) to achieve stronger reasoning capabilities and surpass the boundaries of base models. RL-PLUS integrates two core components: Multiple Importance Sampling to address for distributional mismatch from external data, and an Exploration-Based Advantage Function to guide the model towards high-value, unexplored reasoning paths. We provide both theoretical analysis and extensive experiments to demonstrate the superiority and generalizability of our approach. The results show that RL-PLUS achieves state-of-the-art performance compared with existing RLVR methods on six math reasoning benchmarks and exhibits superior performance on six out-of-distribution reasoning tasks. It also achieves consistent and significant gains across diverse model families, with average relative improvements ranging from 21.1\% to 69.2\%. Moreover, Pass@k curves across multiple benchmarks indicate that RL-PLUS effectively resolves the capability boundary collapse problem.

Off-policy 데이터의 사용. 외부 Policy를 과거 Policy와 Uniform Policy의 결합으로 추정하고 탐색을 촉진하는 Advantage를 사용.

Using off-policy data. The external policy is estimated as a combination of the old policy and uniform policy, and an advantage that encourages exploration is used.

#rl #reasoning 