https://arxiv.org/abs/2507.22058

*X-Omni: Reinforcement Learning Makes Discrete Autoregressive Image Generative Models Great Again* (Zigang Geng, Yibing Wang, Yeyao Ma, Chen Li, Yongming Rao, Shuyang Gu, Zhao Zhong, Qinglin Lu, Han Hu, Xiaosong Zhang, Linus, Di Wang, Jie Jiang)

> Numerous efforts have been made to extend the ``next token prediction'' paradigm to visual contents, aiming to create a unified approach for both image generation and understanding. Nevertheless, attempts to generate images through autoregressive modeling with discrete tokens have been plagued by issues such as low visual fidelity, distorted outputs, and failure to adhere to complex instructions when rendering intricate details. These shortcomings are likely attributed to cumulative errors during autoregressive inference or information loss incurred during the discretization process. Probably due to this challenge, recent research has increasingly shifted toward jointly training image generation with diffusion objectives and language generation with autoregressive objectives, moving away from unified modeling approaches. In this work, we demonstrate that reinforcement learning can effectively mitigate artifacts and largely enhance the generation quality of a discrete autoregressive modeling method, thereby enabling seamless integration of image and language generation. Our framework comprises a semantic image tokenizer, a unified autoregressive model for both language and images, and an offline diffusion decoder for image generation, termed X-Omni. X-Omni achieves state-of-the-art performance in image generation tasks using a 7B language model, producing images with high aesthetic quality while exhibiting strong capabilities in following instructions and rendering long texts.

Autoregressive Image Generation. 아주 단순하게 Discrete Token 기반 Autoregressive 학습을 한 다음 OCR 등을 결합한 GRPO로 포스트트레이닝.

Autoregressive image generation. Very simple. Discrete token based autoregressive modeling and post-training with GRPO using rewards like OCR scores.

#autoregressive-model #vq #diffusion 