https://arxiv.org/abs/2507.08297

*KAT-V1: Kwai-AutoThink Technical Report* (Zizheng Zhan, Ken Deng, Huaixi Tang, Wen Xiang, Kun Wu, Weihao Li, Wenqiang Zhu, Jingxuan Xu, Lecheng Huang, Zongxian Feng, Shaojie Wang, Shangpeng Yan, Jiaheng Liu, Zhongyuan Peng, Zuchen Gao, Haoyang Huang, Ziqi Zhan, Yanan Wu, Yuanxing Zhang, Jian Yang, Guang Chen, Haotian Zhang, Bin Chen, Bing Yu)

> We present Kwaipilot-AutoThink (KAT), an open-source 40B large language model developed to address the overthinking problem in reasoning-intensive tasks, where an automatic thinking training paradigm is proposed to dynamically switch between reasoning and non-reasoning modes based on task complexity. Specifically, first, we construct the dual-regime dataset based on a novel tagging pipeline and a multi-agent synthesis strategy, and then we apply Multi-Token Prediction (MTP)-enhanced knowledge distillation, enabling efficient and fine-grained reasoning transfer with minimal pretraining cost. Besides, we implement a cold-start initialization strategy that introduces mode-selection priors using majority-vote signals and intent-aware prompting. Finally, we propose Step-SRPO, a reinforcement learning algorithm that incorporates intermediate supervision into the GRPO framework, offering structured guidance over both reasoning-mode selection and response accuracy. Extensive experiments across multiple benchmarks demonstrate that KAT consistently matches or even outperforms current state-of-the-art models, including DeepSeek-R1-0528 and Qwen3-235B-A22B, across a wide range of reasoning-intensive tasks while reducing token usage by up to approximately 30\%. Beyond academic evaluation, KAT has been successfully deployed in Kwaipilot (i.e., Kuaishou's internal coding assistant), and improves real-world development workflows with high accuracy, efficiency, and controllable reasoning behaviors. Moreover, we are actively training a 200B Mixture-of-Experts (MoE) with 40B activation parameters, where the early-stage results already demonstrate promising improvements in performance and efficiency, further showing the scalability of the AutoThink paradigm.

추론이 필요한지를 모델이 직접 판단하게 만들기 위한 파이프라인. DeepSeek V3/R1을 Distill했군요.

#rl #reasoning 