https://arxiv.org/abs/2507.19766

*UloRL:An Ultra-Long Output Reinforcement Learning Approach for Advancing Large Language Models' Reasoning Abilities* (Dong Du, Shulin Liu, Tao Yang, Shaohua Chen, Yang Li)

> Recent advances in large language models (LLMs) have highlighted the potential of reinforcement learning with verifiable rewards (RLVR) to enhance reasoning capabilities through extended output sequences. However, traditional RL frameworks face inefficiencies when handling ultra-long outputs due to long-tail sequence distributions and entropy collapse during training. To address these challenges, we propose an Ultra-Long Output Reinforcement Learning (UloRL) approach for advancing large language models' reasoning abilities. Specifically, we divide ultra long output decoding into short segments, enabling efficient training by mitigating delays caused by long-tail samples. Additionally, we introduce dynamic masking of well-Mastered Positive Tokens (MPTs) to prevent entropy collapse. Experimental results demonstrate the effectiveness of our approach. On the Qwen3-30B-A3B model, RL with segment rollout achieved 2.06x increase in training speed, while RL training with 128k-token outputs improves the model's performance on AIME2025 from 70.9\% to 85.1\% and on BeyondAIME from 50.7\% to 61.9\%, even surpassing Qwen3-235B-A22B with remarkable gains. These findings underscore the potential of our methods to advance the reasoning capabilities of LLMs with ultra-long sequence generation. We will release our code and model for further use by the community.

Kimi에서와 같이 생성을 일정 길이에서 중단한 다음 생성이 완료된 시퀀스는 학습에 사용하고 미완료된 시퀀스는 다음 생성 시점으로 넘기는 방법.

A method similar to Kimi. Stopping generation at a certain length, using completed sequences for training, and passing incomplete sequences to the next generation iteration.

#rl #reasoning 