https://arxiv.org/abs/2508.12790

*Reinforcement Learning with Rubric Anchors* (Zenan Huang, Yihong Zhuang, Guoshan Lu, Zeyu Qin, Haokai Xu, Tianyu Zhao, Ru Peng, Jiaqi Hu, Zhanming Shen, Xiaomeng Hu, Xijun Gu, Peiyi Tu, Jiaxin Liu, Wenyu Chen, Yuzhuo Fu, Zhiting Fan, Yanmei Gu, Yuanyuan Wang, Zhengkai Yang, Jianguo Li, Junbo Zhao)

> Reinforcement Learning from Verifiable Rewards (RLVR) has emerged as a powerful paradigm for enhancing Large Language Models (LLMs), exemplified by the success of OpenAI's o-series. In RLVR, rewards are derived from verifiable signals-such as passing unit tests in code generation or matching correct answers in mathematical reasoning. While effective, this requirement largely confines RLVR to domains with automatically checkable outcomes. To overcome this, we extend the RLVR paradigm to open-ended tasks by integrating rubric-based rewards, where carefully designed rubrics serve as structured, model-interpretable criteria for automatic scoring of subjective outputs. We construct, to our knowledge, the largest rubric reward system to date, with over 10,000 rubrics from humans, LLMs, or a hybrid human-LLM collaboration. Implementing rubric-based RL is challenging; we tackle these issues with a clear framework and present an open-sourced Qwen-30B-A3B model with notable gains: 1) With only 5K+ samples, our system improves by +5.2% on open-ended benchmarks (especially humanities), outperforming a 671B DeepSeek-V3 model by +2.4%, while preserving general and reasoning abilities. 2) Our method provides fine-grained stylistic control, using rubrics as anchors to mitigate the "AI-like" tone and produce more human-like, expressive responses. We share key lessons in rubric construction, data selection, and training, and discuss limitations and future releases.

루브릭 기반 Reward Model 하나 더. 루브릭을 어떻게 만들었는지, 루브릭과 부합하는 데이터를 어떻게 구축했는지, 루브릭이 어떻게 디자인되고 업데이트 되는지에 대한 상세는 별로 없다. 물론 대략적인 감은 잡을 수 있음.

Yet another rubric-based reward model study. There aren't many details about how they constructed the rubrics, built data that aligns with these rubrics, or how the rubrics are designed and updated. Still we can get a sense of it.

#reward-model 