https://arxiv.org/abs/2508.05599

*WeTok: Powerful Discrete Tokenization for High-Fidelity Visual Reconstruction* (Shaobin Zhuang, Yiwei Guo, Canmiao Fu, Zhipeng Huang, Zeyue Tian, Ying Zhang, Chen Li, Yali Wang)

> Visual tokenizer is a critical component for vision generation. However, the existing tokenizers often face unsatisfactory trade-off between compression ratios and reconstruction fidelity. To fill this gap, we introduce a powerful and concise WeTok tokenizer, which surpasses the previous leading tokenizers via two core innovations. (1) Group-wise lookup-free Quantization (GQ). We partition the latent features into groups, and perform lookup-free quantization for each group. As a result, GQ can efficiently overcome memory and computation limitations of prior tokenizers, while achieving a reconstruction breakthrough with more scalable codebooks. (2) Generative Decoding (GD). Different from prior tokenizers, we introduce a generative decoder with a prior of extra noise variable. In this case, GD can probabilistically model the distribution of visual data conditioned on discrete tokens, allowing WeTok to reconstruct visual details, especially at high compression ratios. Extensive experiments on mainstream benchmarks show superior performance of our WeTok. On the ImageNet 50k validation set, WeTok achieves a record-low zero-shot rFID (WeTok: 0.12 vs. FLUX-VAE: 0.18 vs. SD-VAE 3.5: 0.19). Furthermore, our highest compression model achieves a zero-shot rFID of 3.49 with a compression ratio of 768, outperforming Cosmos (384) 4.57 which has only 50% compression rate of ours. Code and models are available: https://github.com/zhuangshaobin/WeTok.

고품질 Discrete 이미지 토크나이저. Groupwise LFQ (https://arxiv.org/abs/2507.07997) + Generative Decoder 조합.

Model-based multimodal verifier. Constructed data and trained the model to assign scores not only to the final answer but also to sub-questions within the problem.

#vq 