https://arxiv.org/abs/2508.14460

*DuPO: Enabling Reliable LLM Self-Verification via Dual Preference Optimization* (Shuaijie She, Yu Bao, Yu Lu, Lu Xu, Tao Li, Wenhao Zhu, Shujian Huang, Shanbo Cheng, Lu Lu, Yuxuan Wang)

> We present DuPO, a dual learning-based preference optimization framework that generates annotation-free feedback via a generalized duality. DuPO addresses two key limitations: Reinforcement Learning with Verifiable Rewards (RLVR)'s reliance on costly labels and applicability restricted to verifiable tasks, and traditional dual learning's restriction to strictly dual task pairs (e.g., translation and back-translation). Specifically, DuPO decomposes a primal task's input into known and unknown components, then constructs its dual task to reconstruct the unknown part using the primal output and known information (e.g., reversing math solutions to recover hidden variables), broadening applicability to non-invertible tasks. The quality of this reconstruction serves as a self-supervised reward to optimize the primal task, synergizing with LLMs' ability to instantiate both tasks via a single model. Empirically, DuPO achieves substantial gains across diverse tasks: it enhances the average translation quality by 2.13 COMET over 756 directions, boosts the mathematical reasoning accuracy by an average of 6.4 points on three challenge benchmarks, and enhances performance by 9.3 points as an inference-time reranker (trading computation for accuracy). These results position DuPO as a scalable, general, and annotation-free paradigm for LLM optimization.

Cycle Consistency 같은 Dual Task를 사용한 모델 학습. Cycle Consistency의 대칭적인 특징을 완화해 입력에서 일부만 예측하도록 설정. 흥미로운 문제 증폭 방법으로 생각할 수 있을 듯 (https://arxiv.org/abs/2508.14029).

Model training leveraging dual tasks, like cycle consistency. Relaxes the symmetric nature of cycle consistency by requiring the task to reconstruct only part of the input. This could be a clever method for problem augmentation (https://arxiv.org/abs/2508.14029).

#rl #reasoning 