https://arxiv.org/abs/2509.12474

*Image Tokenizer Needs Post-Training* (Kai Qiu, Xiang Li, Hao Chen, Jason Kuen, Xiaohao Xu, Jiuxiang Gu, Yinyi Luo, Bhiksha Raj, Zhe Lin, Marios Savvides)

> Recent image generative models typically capture the image distribution in a pre-constructed latent space, relying on a frozen image tokenizer. However, there exists a significant discrepancy between the reconstruction and generation distribution, where current tokenizers only prioritize the reconstruction task that happens before generative training without considering the generation errors during sampling. In this paper, we comprehensively analyze the reason for this discrepancy in a discrete latent space, and, from which, we propose a novel tokenizer training scheme including both main-training and post-training, focusing on improving latent space construction and decoding respectively. During the main training, a latent perturbation strategy is proposed to simulate sampling noises, \ie, the unexpected tokens generated in generative inference. Specifically, we propose a plug-and-play tokenizer training scheme, which significantly enhances the robustness of tokenizer, thus boosting the generation quality and convergence speed, and a novel tokenizer evaluation metric, \ie, pFID, which successfully correlates the tokenizer performance to generation quality. During post-training, we further optimize the tokenizer decoder regarding a well-trained generative model to mitigate the distribution difference between generated and reconstructed tokens. With a $\sim$400M generator, a discrete tokenizer trained with our proposed main training achieves a notable 1.60 gFID and further obtains 1.36 gFID with the additional post-training. Further experiments are conducted to broadly validate the effectiveness of our post-training strategy on off-the-shelf discrete and continuous tokenizers, coupled with autoregressive and diffusion-based generators.

VQ 토크나이저 학습 과정에서 Latent에 노이즈를 적용하고 (https://arxiv.org/abs/2508.10711) 모델이 생성한 Latent 토큰들에서 입력 이미지를 예측하도록 하는 포스트트레이닝 단계를 추가.

Perturbs latents during VQ tokenizer training and adds a post-training step to reconstruct input images from model-generated latent tokens.

#vq #tokenizer 