https://arxiv.org/abs/2509.20357

*Language Models that Think, Chat Better* (Adithya Bhaskar, Xi Ye, Danqi Chen)

> Reinforcement learning with verifiable rewards (RLVR) improves language model reasoning by using rule-based rewards in verifiable domains such as mathematics and code. However, RLVR leads to limited generalization for open-ended tasks -- such as writing outline essays or making meal plans -- where humans reason routinely. This paper shows that the RLVR paradigm is effective beyond verifiable domains, and introduces **RL** with **M**odel-rewarded **T**hinking (**RLMT**) for general-purpose chat capabilities. Using diverse real-world prompts, RLMT requires LMs to generate long CoT reasoning before response, and optimizes them with online RL against a preference-based reward model used in RLHF. Across 40 training runs on Llama-3.1-8B and Qwen-2.5-7B (both base and instruct) and multiple optimization algorithms (DPO, PPO, and GRPO), RLMT consistently outperforms standard RLHF pipelines. This includes substantial gains of 3-7 points on three chat benchmarks (AlpacaEval2, WildBench, and ArenaHardV2), along with 1-3 point improvements on other tasks like creative writing and general knowledge. Our best 8B model surpasses GPT-4o in chat and creative writing and rivals Claude-3.7-Sonnet (Thinking). RLMT can also be applied directly to base models without an SFT stage, akin to R1-Zero training. Remarkably, with only 7K prompts, Llama-3.1-8B base trained with our RLMT recipe outperforms Llama-3.1-8B-Instruct post-trained with a complex multi-staged pipeline with 25M+ examples. We close with qualitative and quantitative analyses of how trained models plan their responses. Our results rethink the post-training pipeline and call upon future work to understand and employ thinking more broadly.

