https://arxiv.org/abs/2509.05209

*Hunyuan-MT Technical Report* (Mao Zheng, Zheng Li, Bingxin Qu, Mingyang Song, Yang Du, Mingrui Sun, Di Wang)

> In this report, we introduce Hunyuan-MT-7B, our first open-source multilingual translation model, which supports bidirectional translation across 33 major languages and places a special emphasis on translation between Mandarin and several ethnic minority languages as well as dialects. Furthermore, to serve and address diverse translation scenarios and enhance model performance at test time, we introduce Hunyuan-MT-Chimera-7B, a translation model inspired by the slow thinking mode. This model integrates multiple outputs generated by the Hunyuan-MT-7B model under varying parameter settings, thereby achieving performance superior to that of conventional slow-thinking models based on Chain-of-Thought (CoT). The development of our models follows a holistic training process specifically engineered for multilingual translation, which begins with general and MT-oriented pre-training to build foundational capabilities, proceeds to Supervised Fine-Tuning (SFT) for task-specific adaptation, and culminates in advanced alignment through Reinforcement Learning (RL) and weak-to-strong RL. Through comprehensive experimentation, we demonstrate that both Hunyuan-MT-7B and Hunyuan-MT-Chimera-7B significantly outperform all translation-specific models of comparable parameter size and most of the SOTA large models, particularly on the task of translation between Mandarin and minority languages as well as dialects. In the WMT2025 shared task (General Machine Translation), our models demonstrate state-of-the-art performance, ranking first in 30 out of 31 language pairs. This result highlights the robustness of our models across a diverse linguistic spectrum, encompassing high-resource languages such as Chinese, English, and Japanese, as well as low-resource languages including Czech, Marathi, Estonian, and Icelandic.

요즘 많은 곳에서 기계 번역 모델을 만드는 중. 다국어 프리트레이닝 코퍼스 구축을 위해서? 사용한 Reward와 (XCOMET, Terminology-aware) Chimera라고 하는 여러 개의 약한 번역을 종합해 강한 번역을 생성하는 모델이 흥미로운 부분.

Many companies build machine translation models nowadays, maybe to enhance multilingual corpus for pretraining. The rewards they have used (XCOMET, Terminology-aware rewards) and Chimera, which is a model that synthesizes multiple weak translations into a strong one, are interesting.

#machine-translation 