https://arxiv.org/abs/2509.26625

*Learning to See Before Seeing: Demystifying LLM Visual Priors from Language Pre-training* (Junlin Han, Shengbang Tong, David Fan, Yufan Ren, Koustuv Sinha, Philip Torr, Filippos Kokkinos)

> Large Language Models (LLMs), despite being trained on text alone, surprisingly develop rich visual priors. These priors allow latent visual capabilities to be unlocked for vision tasks with a relatively small amount of multimodal data, and in some cases, to perform visual tasks without ever having seen an image. Through systematic analysis, we reveal that visual priors-the implicit, emergent knowledge about the visual world acquired during language pre-training-are composed of separable perception and reasoning priors with unique scaling trends and origins. We show that an LLM's latent visual reasoning ability is predominantly developed by pre-training on reasoning-centric data (e.g., code, math, academia) and scales progressively. This reasoning prior acquired from language pre-training is transferable and universally applicable to visual reasoning. In contrast, a perception prior emerges more diffusely from broad corpora, and perception ability is more sensitive to the vision encoder and visual instruction tuning data. In parallel, text describing the visual world proves crucial, though its performance impact saturates rapidly. Leveraging these insights, we propose a data-centric recipe for pre-training vision-aware LLMs and verify it in 1T token scale pre-training. Our findings are grounded in over 100 controlled experiments consuming 500,000 GPU-hours, spanning the full MLLM construction pipeline-from LLM pre-training to visual alignment and supervised multimodal fine-tuning-across five model scales, a wide range of data categories and mixtures, and multiple adaptation setups. Along with our main findings, we propose and investigate several hypotheses, and introduce the Multi-Level Existence Bench (MLE-Bench). Together, this work provides a new way of deliberately cultivating visual priors from language pre-training, paving the way for the next generation of multimodal LLMs.

VLM 학습 데이터의 구성의 효과에 대한 분석. 코드나 수학 같은 추론 데이터가 VQA에 대해 가장 효과적이었다고 주장 (다만 효과는 1-2% 정도). 추론 코퍼스는 모달리티를 넘어서는 어떤 근본적인 능력을 반영하고 있는 것일지?

Analysis of the effect of training data composition for VLMs. This argues that reasoning data like code or math is most beneficial for VQA (though the effect is around 1-2%p). Why does this happen? Does reasoning corpus contain fundamental skills that transcend modality?

#multimodal 