https://arxiv.org/abs/2510.21450

*ParaRNN: Unlocking Parallel Training of Nonlinear RNNs for Large Language Models* (Federico Danieli, Pau Rodriguez, Miguel Sarabia, Xavier Suau, Luca Zappella)

> Recurrent Neural Networks (RNNs) laid the foundation for sequence modeling, but their intrinsic sequential nature restricts parallel computation, creating a fundamental barrier to scaling. This has led to the dominance of parallelizable architectures like Transformers and, more recently, State Space Models (SSMs). While SSMs achieve efficient parallelization through structured linear recurrences, this linearity constraint limits their expressive power and precludes modeling complex, nonlinear sequence-wise dependencies. To address this, we present ParaRNN, a framework that breaks the sequence-parallelization barrier for nonlinear RNNs. Building on prior work, we cast the sequence of nonlinear recurrence relationships as a single system of equations, which we solve in parallel using Newton's iterations combined with custom parallel reductions. Our implementation achieves speedups of up to 665x over naive sequential application, allowing training nonlinear RNNs at unprecedented scales. To showcase this, we apply ParaRNN to adaptations of LSTM and GRU architectures, successfully training models of 7B parameters that attain perplexity comparable to similarly-sized Transformers and Mamba2 architectures. To accelerate research in efficient sequence modeling, we release the ParaRNN codebase as an open-source framework for automatic training-parallelization of nonlinear RNNs, enabling researchers and practitioners to explore new nonlinear RNN models at scale.

길이 L인 시퀀스에 대한 RNN 연산을 L개의 비선형 방정식으로 변환하고 뉴턴법을 사용해서 비선형 RNN에 대해 병렬 연산을 수행. 비선형 RNN을 사용할 수 있다면 State Space Model 계통의 연구들이 완전히 바뀌게 될 것.

Parallel computation of nonlinear RNNs by turning application of RNN over sequence of length L into L nonlinear equations and solve it with Newton's method. If we can afford nonlinear RNNs then this can completely change state space model related works.

#state-space-model 