https://arxiv.org/abs/2511.22699

*Z-Image: An Efficient Image Generation Foundation Model with Single-Stream Diffusion Transformer* (Z-Image Team, Huanqia Cai, Sihan Cao, Ruoyi Du, Peng Gao, Steven Hoi, Shijie Huang, Zhaohui Hou, Dengyang Jiang, Xin Jin, Liangchen Li, Zhen Li, Zhong-Yu Li, David Liu, Dongyang Liu, Junhan Shi, Qilong Wu, Feng Yu, Chi Zhang, Shifeng Zhang, Shilin Zhou)

> The landscape of high-performance image generation models is currently dominated by proprietary systems, such as Nano Banana Pro and Seedream 4.0. Leading open-source alternatives, including Qwen-Image, Hunyuan-Image-3.0 and FLUX.2, are characterized by massive parameter counts (20B to 80B), making them impractical for inference, and fine-tuning on consumer-grade hardware. To address this gap, we propose Z-Image, an efficient 6B-parameter foundation generative model built upon a Scalable Single-Stream Diffusion Transformer (S3-DiT) architecture that challenges the "scale-at-all-costs" paradigm. By systematically optimizing the entire model lifecycle -- from a curated data infrastructure to a streamlined training curriculum -- we complete the full training workflow in just 314K H800 GPU hours (approx. $630K). Our few-step distillation scheme with reward post-training further yields Z-Image-Turbo, offering both sub-second inference latency on an enterprise-grade H800 GPU and compatibility with consumer-grade hardware (<16GB VRAM). Additionally, our omni-pre-training paradigm also enables efficient training of Z-Image-Edit, an editing model with impressive instruction-following capabilities. Both qualitative and quantitative experiments demonstrate that our model achieves performance comparable to or surpassing that of leading competitors across various dimensions. Most notably, Z-Image exhibits exceptional capabilities in photorealistic image generation and bilingual text rendering, delivering results that rival top-tier commercial models, thereby demonstrating that state-of-the-art results are achievable with significantly reduced computational overhead. We publicly release our code, weights, and online demo to foster the development of accessible, budget-friendly, yet state-of-the-art generative models.

Z-Image의 테크니컬 리포트. 데이터 파이프라인에 대해 꽤 상세함. Semantic Resampling을 위해 지식 그래프를 구축하고 사용하는 방법이나 이미지 에디팅 데이터를 구축하는 방법 등.

Technical report on Z-Image. This is quite detailed on how they built the data pipeline - for example, knowledge graph construction for semantic resampling and image editing data construction.

#image-generation #text-to-image 