https://arxiv.org/abs/2512.08854

*Generation is Required for Data-Efficient Perception* (Jack Brady, Bernhard Schölkopf, Thomas Kipf, Simon Buchholz, Wieland Brendel)

> It has been hypothesized that human-level visual perception requires a generative approach in which internal representations result from inverting a decoder. Yet today's most successful vision models are non-generative, relying on an encoder that maps images to representations without decoder inversion. This raises the question of whether generation is, in fact, necessary for machines to achieve human-level visual perception. To address this, we study whether generative and non-generative methods can achieve compositional generalization, a hallmark of human perception. Under a compositional data generating process, we formalize the inductive biases required to guarantee compositional generalization in decoder-based (generative) and encoder-based (non-generative) methods. We then show theoretically that enforcing these inductive biases on encoders is generally infeasible using regularization or architectural constraints. In contrast, for generative methods, the inductive biases can be enforced straightforwardly, thereby enabling compositional generalization by constraining a decoder and inverting it. We highlight how this inversion can be performed efficiently, either online through gradient-based search or offline through generative replay. We examine the empirical implications of our theory by training a range of generative and non-generative methods on photorealistic image datasets. We find that, without the necessary inductive biases, non-generative methods often fail to generalize compositionally and require large-scale pretraining or added supervision to improve generalization. By comparison, generative methods yield significant improvements in compositional generalization, without requiring additional data, by leveraging suitable inductive biases on a decoder along with search and replay.

Compositional Generalization이 어쩌면 생성 모델로만 가능할 수도 있다는 주장. z -> x 형태의 생성 모델에 대해서는 z의 OOD 영역에 대해 특정한 구조를 부여할 수 있음. 그러나 생성 모델이 아닌 경우, x -> z 형태에서는 데이터 도메인의 OOD에 구조를 부여할 수는 없음. 물론 특정한 함수형을 가정한 결과이기는 함.

Assertion that compositional generalization may only be possible with generative models. For generative models, z -> x, we can impose structure on the OOD area of z as it is possible to give it simple structures. But it is impossible with non-generative models, x -> z, because it depends on the OOD area of the data domain. This assumes specific function classes, though.

#generalization #generative-model 