https://arxiv.org/abs/2402.00838

*OLMo: Accelerating the Science of Language Models* (Dirk Groeneveld, Iz Beltagy, Pete Walsh, Akshita Bhagia, Rodney Kinney, Oyvind Tafjord, Ananya Harsh Jha, Hamish Ivison, Ian Magnusson, Yizhong Wang, Shane Arora, David Atkinson, Russell Authur, Khyathi Raghavi Chandu, Arman Cohan, Jennifer Dumas, Yanai Elazar, Yuling Gu, Jack Hessel, Tushar Khot, William Merrill, Jacob Morrison, Niklas Muennighoff, Aakanksha Naik, Crystal Nam, Matthew E. Peters, Valentina Pyatkin, Abhilasha Ravichander, Dustin Schwenk, Saurabh Shah, Will Smith, Emma Strubell, Nishant Subramani, Mitchell Wortsman, Pradeep Dasigi, Nathan Lambert, Kyle Richardson, Luke Zettlemoyer, Jesse Dodge, Kyle Lo, Luca Soldaini, Noah A. Smith, Hannaneh Hajishirzi)

> Language models (LMs) have become ubiquitous in both NLP research and in commercial product offerings. As their commercial importance has surged, the most powerful models have become closed off, gated behind proprietary interfaces, with important details of their training data, architectures, and development undisclosed. Given the importance of these details in scientifically studying these models, including their biases and potential risks, we believe it is essential for the research community to have access to powerful, truly open LMs. To this end, this technical report details the first release of OLMo, a state-of-the-art, truly Open Language Model and its framework to build and study the science of language modeling. Unlike most prior efforts that have only released model weights and inference code, we release OLMo and the whole framework, including training data and training and evaluation code. We hope this release will empower and strengthen the open research community and inspire a new wave of innovation.

Dolma 코퍼스로 학습한 7B 모델. 2.5T 학습했고 성능은 전반적으로 다른 7B 모델들과 비슷해 보입니다. 주요 강조점 중 하나가 코드와 체크포인트 등을 모두 공개했다는 것이네요. 다만 학습은 FSDP만으로 한 것 같군요.

재미있는 것은 A100 뿐만 아니라 1,000대 규모의 AMD MI250X로도 학습을 시켜봤다는 것이네요. 문제 없이 됐다고 합니다.

#llm 

7B LLM trained using Dolma corpus. Trained with 2.5T tokens and performances look similar to the other 7B models. Main point of this paper is that they opened all the codes and checkpoints. But training was done with FSDP.

What is interesting is that they have used 1,000 AMD MI250X, along with A100s. They said it was done without special problems.