https://arxiv.org/abs/2402.03289

*Make Every Move Count: LLM-based High-Quality RTL Code Generation Using MCTS* (Matthew DeLorenzo, Animesh Basak Chowdhury, Vasudev Gohil, Shailja Thakur, Ramesh Karri, Siddharth Garg, Jeyavijayan Rajendran)

> Existing large language models (LLMs) for register transfer level code generation face challenges like compilation failures and suboptimal power, performance, and area (PPA) efficiency. This is due to the lack of PPA awareness in conventional transformer decoding algorithms. In response, we present an automated transformer decoding algorithm that integrates Monte Carlo tree-search for lookahead, guiding the transformer to produce compilable, functionally correct, and PPA-optimized code. Empirical evaluation with a fine-tuned language model on RTL codesets shows that our proposed technique consistently generates functionally correct code compared to prompting-only methods and effectively addresses the PPA-unawareness drawback of naive large language models. For the largest design generated by the state-of-the-art LLM (16-bit adder), our technique can achieve a 31.8% improvement in the area-delay product.

LLM 디코딩 시점의 MCTS. 이런 계통의 시도들이 있었는데 (https://arxiv.org/abs/2309.15028) 여기서는 Verilog로 코딩을 하는 문제에 접근했습니다. 컴파일이 되는가, 작동하는가, 그리고 Area Delay Product가 Reward가 되는데 속도와 관련된 지표인 것 같군요.

#decoding #search 

MCTS during LLM decoding. There was related approaches. In this study tackes coding with verilog. Whether is compilable, works, and area delay product is used as a reward. I don't familar with area delay products, but it seems like that it is related to speed on circuits.

# Links

[[230926 Making PPO even better.md]]