https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.04692

*PixArt-Σ: Weak-to-Strong Training of Diffusion Transformer for 4K Text-to-Image Generation* (Junsong Chen, Chongjian Ge, Enze Xie, Yue Wu, Lewei Yao, Xiaozhe Ren, Zhongdao Wang, Ping Luo, Huchuan Lu, Zhenguo Li)

> In this paper, we introduce PixArt-\Sigma, a Diffusion Transformer model~(DiT) capable of directly generating images at 4K resolution. PixArt-\Sigma represents a significant advancement over its predecessor, PixArt-\alpha, offering images of markedly higher fidelity and improved alignment with text prompts. A key feature of PixArt-\Sigma is its training efficiency. Leveraging the foundational pre-training of PixArt-\alpha, it evolves from the `weaker' baseline to a `stronger' model via incorporating higher quality data, a process we term "weak-to-strong training". The advancements in PixArt-\Sigma are twofold: (1) High-Quality Training Data: PixArt-\Sigma incorporates superior-quality image data, paired with more precise and detailed image captions. (2) Efficient Token Compression: we propose a novel attention module within the DiT framework that compresses both keys and values, significantly improving efficiency and facilitating ultra-high-resolution image generation. Thanks to these improvements, PixArt-\Sigma achieves superior image quality and user prompt adherence capabilities with significantly smaller model size (0.6B parameters) than existing text-to-image diffusion models, such as SDXL (2.6B parameters) and SD Cascade (5.1B parameters). Moreover, PixArt-\Sigma's capability to generate 4K images supports the creation of high-resolution posters and wallpapers, efficiently bolstering the production of high-quality visual content in industries such as film and gaming.

더 높은 품질의 이미지-텍스트 페어와 고해상도 대응을 위한 Key-Value에 대한 Strided Conv를 사용한 압축 등. 별개로 Weak-to-Strong Generalization이라는 표현이 OpenAI에 의해 도입된 이후 Weak-to-Strong이라는 표현이 좀 남용되고 있다는 느낌은 있네요.

#text-to-image 