https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.15279

*Fundus: A Simple-to-Use News Scraper Optimized for High Quality Extractions* (Max Dallabetta, Conrad Dobberstein, Adrian Breiding, Alan Akbik)

> This paper introduces Fundus, a user-friendly news scraper that enables users to obtain millions of high-quality news articles with just a few lines of code. Unlike existing news scrapers, we use manually crafted, bespoke content extractors that are specifically tailored to the formatting guidelines of each supported online newspaper. This allows us to optimize our scraping for quality such that retrieved news articles are textually complete and without HTML artifacts. Further, our framework combines both crawling (retrieving HTML from the web or large web archives) and content extraction into a single pipeline. By providing a unified interface for a predefined collection of newspapers, we aim to make Fundus broadly usable even for non-technical users. This paper gives an overview of the framework, discusses our design choices, and presents a comparative evaluation against other popular news scrapers. Our evaluation shows that Fundus yields significantly higher quality extractions (complete and artifact-free news articles) than prior work. The framework is available on GitHub under https://github.com/flairNLP/fundus and can be simply installed using pip.

각 언론사 사이트별 특화 Extractor를 만들어서 데이터를 추출하겠다는 아이디어. 중요한 데이터소스라면 특화된 추출 도구를 만드는 쪽이 더 낫겠죠. 다만 웹사이트의 구조가 시간에 따라 변화한다는 것이 문제이긴 합니다. 2021년까지는 괜찮은 듯 한데 그 이전은 문제가 있는 듯 하네요.

#corpus 