https://arxiv.org/abs/2405.16759

*Greedy Growing Enables High-Resolution Pixel-Based Diffusion Models* (Cristina N. Vasconcelos, Abdullah Rashwan Austin Waters, Trevor Walker, Keyang Xu, Jimmy Yan, Rui Qian, Shixin Luo, Zarana Parekh, Andrew Bunner, Hongliang Fei, Roopal Garg, Mandy Guo, Ivana Kajic, Yeqing Li, Henna Nandwani, Jordi Pont-Tuset, Yasumasa Onoe, Sarah Rosston, Su Wang, Wenlei Zhou, Kevin Swersky, David J. Fleet, Jason M. Baldridge, Oliver Wang)

> We address the long-standing problem of how to learn effective pixel-based image diffusion models at scale, introducing a remarkably simple greedy growing method for stable training of large-scale, high-resolution models. without the needs for cascaded super-resolution components. The key insight stems from careful pre-training of core components, namely, those responsible for text-to-image alignment {\it vs.} high-resolution rendering. We first demonstrate the benefits of scaling a {\it Shallow UNet}, with no down(up)-sampling enc(dec)oder. Scaling its deep core layers is shown to improve alignment, object structure, and composition. Building on this core model, we propose a greedy algorithm that grows the architecture into high-resolution end-to-end models, while preserving the integrity of the pre-trained representation, stabilizing training, and reducing the need for large high-resolution datasets. This enables a single stage model capable of generating high-resolution images without the need of a super-resolution cascade. Our key results rely on public datasets and show that we are able to train non-cascaded models up to 8B parameters with no further regularization schemes. Vermeer, our full pipeline model trained with internal datasets to produce 1024x1024 images, without cascades, is preferred by 44.0% vs. 21.4% human evaluators over SDXL.

구글의 픽셀 단위 Diffusion. 16x16 그리드에서 작동하는 Transformer 레이어를 코어 모듈로 설정한 다음 앞뒤로 인코더/디코더를 붙입니다. 작은 해상도에서 학습시킨 다음 고해상도로 넘어갈 때는 코어 모듈을 유지하고 인코더/디코더를 갈아치우는 방식으로 학습시키네요.

#diffusion 