https://arxiv.org/abs/2405.12739

*SPO: Multi-Dimensional Preference Sequential Alignment With Implicit Reward Modeling* (Xingzhou Lou, Junge Zhang, Jian Xie, Lifeng Liu, Dong Yan, Kaiqi Huang)

> Human preference alignment is critical in building powerful and reliable large language models (LLMs). However, current methods either ignore the multi-dimensionality of human preferences (e.g. helpfulness and harmlessness) or struggle with the complexity of managing multiple reward models. To address these issues, we propose Sequential Preference Optimization (SPO), a method that sequentially fine-tunes LLMs to align with multiple dimensions of human preferences. SPO avoids explicit reward modeling, directly optimizing the models to align with nuanced human preferences. We theoretically derive closed-form optimal SPO policy and loss function. Gradient analysis is conducted to show how SPO manages to fine-tune the LLMs while maintaining alignment on previously optimized dimensions. Empirical results on LLMs of different size and multiple evaluation datasets demonstrate that SPO successfully aligns LLMs across multiple dimensions of human preferences and significantly outperforms the baselines.

Helpfulness vs Harmlessness 같은 다각적인 Preference가 충돌하는 상황에 대한 최적화. 요약하자면 각 Preference의 차원에 따라 데이터셋을 나누고 다음 단계의 최적화에서 이전 모델과에 대한 KL Penalty와 이전 데이터셋의 Reward에 대한 페널티를 추가한 형태입니다.

개인적으로 이 문제에 대해 Safe RLHF (https://arxiv.org/abs/2310.12773) 가 재미있었는데 엄밀하게 비교해보면 흥미로울 것 같네요.

#alignment #rlhf

# Links

[[231019 Safe RLHF.md]]