https://arxiv.org/abs/2406.09175

*ReMI: A Dataset for Reasoning with Multiple Images* (Mehran Kazemi, Nishanth Dikkala, Ankit Anand, Petar Devic, Ishita Dasgupta, Fangyu Liu, Bahare Fatemi, Pranjal Awasthi, Dee Guo, Sreenivas Gollapudi, Ahmed Qureshi)

> With the continuous advancement of large language models (LLMs), it is essential to create new benchmarks to effectively evaluate their expanding capabilities and identify areas for improvement. This work focuses on multi-image reasoning, an emerging capability in state-of-the-art LLMs. We introduce ReMI, a dataset designed to assess LLMs' ability to Reason with Multiple Images. This dataset encompasses a diverse range of tasks, spanning various reasoning domains such as math, physics, logic, code, table/chart understanding, and spatial and temporal reasoning. It also covers a broad spectrum of characteristics found in multi-image reasoning scenarios. We have benchmarked several cutting-edge LLMs using ReMI and found a substantial gap between their performance and human-level proficiency. This highlights the challenges in multi-image reasoning and the need for further research. Our analysis also reveals the strengths and weaknesses of different models, shedding light on the types of reasoning that are currently attainable and areas where future models require improvement. To foster further research in this area, we are releasing ReMI publicly: https://huggingface.co/datasets/mehrankazemi/ReMI.

이미지 여러 장을 사용한 추론 과제 벤치마크. 시계 읽기는 비전에서 본래도 악명 높은 과제인데 여기서도 아주 끔찍한 결과가 나왔군요. (Claude 3 Sonnet의 5.0 vs Human 80.0)

#benchmark #vision-language 