https://arxiv.org/abs/2407.13623

*Scaling Laws with Vocabulary: Larger Models Deserve Larger Vocabularies* (Chaofan Tao, Qian Liu, Longxu Dou, Niklas Muennighoff, Zhongwei Wan, Ping Luo, Min Lin, Ngai Wong)

> Research on scaling large language models (LLMs) has primarily focused on model parameters and training data size, overlooking the role of vocabulary size. % Intuitively, larger vocabularies enable more efficient tokenization by representing sentences with fewer tokens, but they also increase the risk of under-fitting representations for rare tokens. We investigate how vocabulary size impacts LLM scaling laws by training models ranging from 33M to 3B parameters on up to 500B characters with various vocabulary configurations. We propose three complementary approaches for predicting the compute-optimal vocabulary size: IsoFLOPs analysis, derivative estimation, and parametric fit of the loss function. Our approaches converge on the same result that the optimal vocabulary size depends on the available compute budget and that larger models deserve larger vocabularies. However, most LLMs use too small vocabulary sizes. For example, we predict that the optimal vocabulary size of Llama2-70B should have been at least 216K, 7 times larger than its vocabulary of 32K. We validate our predictions empirically by training models with 3B parameters across different FLOPs budgets. Adopting our predicted optimal vocabulary size consistently improves downstream performance over commonly used vocabulary sizes. By increasing the vocabulary size from the conventional 32K to 43K, we improve performance on ARC-Challenge from 29.1 to 32.0 with the same 2.3e21 FLOPs. Our work emphasizes the necessity of jointly considering model parameters and vocabulary size for efficient scaling.

연산량에 따라 최적의 Vocabulary 수에 대한 Scaling Law. 투입하는 연산량이 많을수록 Vocabulary 수도 늘어나야 한다는 것이죠. 논문에서는 언급되지 않지만 Softmax Bottleneck 같은 이슈와도 관계된 현상일 듯 합니다.

#scaling-law #tokenizer 