https://arxiv.org/abs/2407.07614

*MARS: Mixture of Auto-Regressive Models for Fine-grained Text-to-image Synthesis* (Wanggui He, Siming Fu, Mushui Liu, Xierui Wang, Wenyi Xiao, Fangxun Shu, Yi Wang, Lei Zhang, Zhelun Yu, Haoyuan Li, Ziwei Huang, LeiLei Gan, Hao Jiang)

> Auto-regressive models have made significant progress in the realm of language generation, yet they do not perform on par with diffusion models in the domain of image synthesis. In this work, we introduce MARS, a novel framework for T2I generation that incorporates a specially designed Semantic Vision-Language Integration Expert (SemVIE). This innovative component integrates pre-trained LLMs by independently processing linguistic and visual information, freezing the textual component while fine-tuning the visual component. This methodology preserves the NLP capabilities of LLMs while imbuing them with exceptional visual understanding. Building upon the powerful base of the pre-trained Qwen-7B, MARS stands out with its bilingual generative capabilities corresponding to both English and Chinese language prompts and the capacity for joint image and text generation. The flexibility of this framework lends itself to migration towards any-to-any task adaptability. Furthermore, MARS employs a multi-stage training strategy that first establishes robust image-text alignment through complementary bidirectional tasks and subsequently concentrates on refining the T2I generation process, significantly augmenting text-image synchrony and the granularity of image details. Notably, MARS requires only 9% of the GPU days needed by SD1.5, yet it achieves remarkable results across a variety of benchmarks, illustrating the training efficiency and the potential for swift deployment in various applications.

Autoregressive Text to Image 모델. 새로 추가되는 이미지 토큰에 대해 Attention, FFN Expert를 추가하는 접근. Rewriting된 캡션을 사용했고, 좀 더 특이한 것은 고해상도 생성에 대응하기 위해 Super Resolution 모델을 N개 토큰 예측으로 학습시켰다는 것이네요.

#autoregressive-model #text2img #vq 