https://arxiv.org/abs/2408.06567

*AquilaMoE: Efficient Training for MoE Models with Scale-Up and Scale-Out Strategies* (Bo-Wen Zhang, Liangdong Wang, Ye Yuan, Jijie Li, Shuhao Gu, Mengdi Zhao, Xinya Wu, Guang Liu, Chengwei Wu, Hanyu Zhao, Li Du, Yiming Ju, Quanyue Ma, Yulong Ao, Yingli Zhao, Songhe Zhu, Zhou Cao, Dong Liang, Yonghua Lin, Ming Zhang, Shunfei Wang, Yanxin Zhou, Min Ye, Xuekai Chen, Xinyang Yu, Xiangjun Huang, Jian Yang)

> In recent years, with the rapid application of large language models across various fields, the scale of these models has gradually increased, and the resources required for their pre-training have grown exponentially. Training an LLM from scratch will cost a lot of computation resources while scaling up from a smaller model is a more efficient approach and has thus attracted significant attention. In this paper, we present AquilaMoE, a cutting-edge bilingual 8*16B Mixture of Experts (MoE) language model that has 8 experts with 16 billion parameters each and is developed using an innovative training methodology called EfficientScale. This approach optimizes performance while minimizing data requirements through a two-stage process. The first stage, termed Scale-Up, initializes the larger model with weights from a pre-trained smaller model, enabling substantial knowledge transfer and continuous pretraining with significantly less data. The second stage, Scale-Out, uses a pre-trained dense model to initialize the MoE experts, further enhancing knowledge transfer and performance. Extensive validation experiments on 1.8B and 7B models compared various initialization schemes, achieving models that maintain and reduce loss during continuous pretraining. Utilizing the optimal scheme, we successfully trained a 16B model and subsequently the 8*16B AquilaMoE model, demonstrating significant improvements in performance and training efficiency.

모델 재사용을 통해 학습을 가속하고자 한 시도. Sparse Upcycling에서 흔히 보고되듯 이런 방법은 오래 학습하면 효과가 감소하거나 오히려 From Scratch 학습보다 손해를 보는 경우도 있죠. 그에 대한 고려가 늘 필요합니다.

#llm #efficient-training 