https://arxiv.org/abs/2409.18042

*EMOVA: Empowering Language Models to See, Hear and Speak with Vivid Emotions* (Kai Chen, Yunhao Gou, Runhui Huang, Zhili Liu, Daxin Tan, Jing Xu, Chunwei Wang, Yi Zhu, Yihan Zeng, Kuo Yang, Dingdong Wang, Kun Xiang, Haoyuan Li, Haoli Bai, Jianhua Han, Xiaohui Li, Weike Jin, Nian Xie, Yu Zhang, James T. Kwok, Hengshuang Zhao, Xiaodan Liang, Dit-Yan Yeung, Xiao Chen, Zhenguo Li, Wei Zhang, Qun Liu, Lanqing Hong, Lu Hou, Hang Xu)

> GPT-4o, an omni-modal model that enables vocal conversations with diverse emotions and tones, marks a milestone for omni-modal foundation models. However, empowering Large Language Models to perceive and generate images, texts, and speeches end-to-end with publicly available data remains challenging in the open-source community. Existing vision-language models rely on external tools for the speech processing, while speech-language models still suffer from limited or even without vision-understanding abilities. To address this gap, we propose EMOVA (EMotionally Omni-present Voice Assistant), to enable Large Language Models with end-to-end speech capabilities while maintaining the leading vision-language performance. With a semantic-acoustic disentangled speech tokenizer, we notice surprisingly that omni-modal alignment can further enhance vision-language and speech abilities compared with the corresponding bi-modal aligned counterparts. Moreover, a lightweight style module is proposed for flexible speech style controls (e.g., emotions and pitches). For the first time, EMOVA achieves state-of-the-art performance on both the vision-language and speech benchmarks, and meanwhile, supporting omni-modal spoken dialogue with vivid emotions.

여기도 Speech Generation을 붙였군요. 여기서는 이미지 생성은 빼고 Continuous Token을 사용했습니다. 이쪽에서 가장 흥미로운 부분은 Vision-Text Alignment와 Speech-Text Alignment가 순차적으로 학습시키는 경우에도 상승 효과가 있었다는 점일 것 같네요. 모달리티 사이의 상승 효과는 다들 실제로 일어나기를 기대하던 것이긴 하죠.

ChatGPT Advanced Voice가 풀린 시점이라 이 계통 연구에 대한 관심이 더 높아졌을 것 같네요. 그런데 Advanced Voice가 실제 사용자에게 어떻게 활용되고 있을지 궁금하군요.

#speech #multimodal 