https://arxiv.org/abs/2410.16162

*Sparkle: Mastering Basic Spatial Capabilities in Vision Language Models Elicits Generalization to Composite Spatial Reasoning* (Yihong Tang, Ao Qu, Zhaokai Wang, Dingyi Zhuang, Zhaofeng Wu, Wei Ma, Shenhao Wang, Yunhan Zheng, Zhan Zhao, Jinhua Zhao)

> Vision language models (VLMs) have demonstrated impressive performance across a wide range of downstream tasks. However, their proficiency in spatial reasoning remains limited, despite its crucial role in tasks involving navigation and interaction with physical environments. Specifically, much of the spatial reasoning in these tasks occurs in two-dimensional (2D) environments, and our evaluation reveals that state-of-the-art VLMs frequently generate implausible and incorrect responses to composite spatial reasoning problems, including simple pathfinding tasks that humans can solve effortlessly at a glance. To address this, we explore an effective approach to enhance 2D spatial reasoning within VLMs by training the model on basic spatial capabilities. We begin by disentangling the key components of 2D spatial reasoning: direction comprehension, distance estimation, and localization. Our central hypothesis is that mastering these basic spatial capabilities can significantly enhance a model's performance on composite spatial tasks requiring advanced spatial understanding and combinatorial problem-solving. To investigate this hypothesis, we introduce Sparkle, a framework that fine-tunes VLMs on these three basic spatial capabilities by synthetic data generation and targeted supervision to form an instruction dataset for each capability. Our experiments demonstrate that VLMs fine-tuned with Sparkle achieve significant performance gains, not only in the basic tasks themselves but also in generalizing to composite and out-of-distribution spatial reasoning tasks (e.g., improving from 13.5% to 40.0% on the shortest path problem). These findings underscore the effectiveness of mastering basic spatial capabilities in enhancing composite spatial problem-solving, offering insights for improving VLMs' spatial reasoning capabilities.

기본적인 공간적 추론 과제를 통해 모델을 학습시키면 복합적인 공간적 추론이 필요한 과제에 대한 성능이 향상된다는 결과. 멀티모달 모델의 학습에는 모달리티 내의 다양한 구조를 추출할 수 있도록 데이터를 설계하는 것이 중요하지 않나 싶습니다.

<english>
The results that we can improve compositional spatial reasoning by training models on basic spatial reasoning problems. I think for training multimodal models it is imporant to design the data to extract various structures in the modality.
</english>

#multimodal 