https://arxiv.org/abs/2410.13861

*PUMA: Empowering Unified MLLM with Multi-granular Visual Generation* (Rongyao Fang, Chengqi Duan, Kun Wang, Hao Li, Hao Tian, Xingyu Zeng, Rui Zhao, Jifeng Dai, Hongsheng Li, Xihui Liu)

> Recent advancements in multimodal foundation models have yielded significant progress in vision-language understanding. Initial attempts have also explored the potential of multimodal large language models (MLLMs) for visual content generation. However, existing works have insufficiently addressed the varying granularity demands of different image generation tasks within a unified MLLM paradigm - from the diversity required in text-to-image generation to the precise controllability needed in image manipulation. In this work, we propose PUMA, emPowering Unified MLLM with Multi-grAnular visual generation. PUMA unifies multi-granular visual features as both inputs and outputs of MLLMs, elegantly addressing the different granularity requirements of various image generation tasks within a unified MLLM framework. Following multimodal pretraining and task-specific instruction tuning, PUMA demonstrates proficiency in a wide range of multimodal tasks. This work represents a significant step towards a truly unified MLLM capable of adapting to the granularity demands of various visual tasks. The code and model will be released in https://github.com/rongyaofang/PUMA.

Multiscale CLIP Feature를 입력으로 받고 마찬가지로 CLIP Feature를 Autoregressive 생성하는 모델. CLIP Feature를 디코더에 넣어 생성하는 형태입니다.

<english>
Using multiscale CLIP features as an input, and genrates multiscale clip feature autoregressively. Then CLIP features is gave to decoder and then generates image.
</english>

#multimodal #image-generation 