https://arxiv.org/abs/2410.24198

*SelfCodeAlign: Self-Alignment for Code Generation* (Yuxiang Wei, Federico Cassano, Jiawei Liu, Yifeng Ding, Naman Jain, Zachary Mueller, Harm de Vries, Leandro von Werra, Arjun Guha, Lingming Zhang)

> Instruction tuning is a supervised fine-tuning approach that significantly improves the ability of large language models (LLMs) to follow human instructions. We propose SelfCodeAlign, the first fully transparent and permissive pipeline for self-aligning code LLMs without extensive human annotations or distillation. SelfCodeAlign employs the same base model for inference throughout the data generation process. It first extracts diverse coding concepts from high-quality seed snippets to generate new tasks. It then samples multiple responses per task, pairs each with test cases, and validates them in a sandbox environment. Finally, passing examples are selected for instruction tuning. In our primary experiments, we use SelfCodeAlign with CodeQwen1.5-7B to generate a dataset of 74k instruction-response pairs. Finetuning on this dataset leads to a model that achieves a 67.1 pass@1 on HumanEval+, surpassing CodeLlama-70B-Instruct despite being ten times smaller. Across all benchmarks, this finetuned model consistently outperforms the original version trained with OctoPack, the previous state-of-the-art method for instruction tuning without human annotations or distillation. Additionally, we show that SelfCodeAlign is effective across LLMs of various sizes, from 3B to 33B, and that the base models can benefit more from alignment with their own data distribution. We further validate each component's effectiveness in our pipeline, showing that SelfCodeAlign outperforms both direct distillation from GPT-4o and leading GPT-3.5-based distillation methods, such as OSS-Instruct and Evol-Instruct. SelfCodeAlign has also led to the creation of StarCoder2-Instruct, the first fully transparent, permissively licensed, and self-aligned code LLM that achieves state-of-the-art coding performance.

코드 Instruction에 대한 정렬 방법. 코드 스니펫 추출, Instruction 생성, 테스트 생성 및 검증이라는 순서인데 가장 흥미로운 점은 Instruction 튜닝을 거친 모델이 아닌 베이스 모델로 데이터 생성 과정을 진행했다는 것이네요.

<english>
Alignment method for code instructions. Code snippet extraction, instruction generation, and generated tests and validates. Interesting point is that these process done with base models, not instruction tuned models.
</english>

#instruction-tuning #synthetic-data 