https://arxiv.org/abs/2410.18975

*Unbounded: A Generative Infinite Game of Character Life Simulation* (Jialu Li, Yuanzhen Li, Neal Wadhwa, Yael Pritch, David E. Jacobs, Michael Rubinstein, Mohit Bansal, Nataniel Ruiz)

> We introduce the concept of a generative infinite game, a video game that transcends the traditional boundaries of finite, hard-coded systems by using generative models. Inspired by James P. Carse's distinction between finite and infinite games, we leverage recent advances in generative AI to create Unbounded: a game of character life simulation that is fully encapsulated in generative models. Specifically, Unbounded draws inspiration from sandbox life simulations and allows you to interact with your autonomous virtual character in a virtual world by feeding, playing with and guiding it - with open-ended mechanics generated by an LLM, some of which can be emergent. In order to develop Unbounded, we propose technical innovations in both the LLM and visual generation domains. Specifically, we present: (1) a specialized, distilled large language model (LLM) that dynamically generates game mechanics, narratives, and character interactions in real-time, and (2) a new dynamic regional image prompt Adapter (IP-Adapter) for vision models that ensures consistent yet flexible visual generation of a character across multiple environments. We evaluate our system through both qualitative and quantitative analysis, showing significant improvements in character life simulation, user instruction following, narrative coherence, and visual consistency for both characters and the environments compared to traditional related approaches.

LLM으로 자유로운 상호작용이 가능한 게임 만들기. 그런데 상황에 걸맞는 장면 이미지를 생성하는 작업에 많은 노력을 들였네요.

AI 던전이 LLM의 초창기에 인상적인 결과물 중 하나였죠. 그 생각이 나는군요.

<english>
Building game that allows user to do free form interactions with LLMs. They did many works on how to do image generation that matches with overall situations.

AI Dungeon was one of most notable applications in early eras of LLMs. It reminds me that.
</english>

#llm 