https://arxiv.org/abs/2410.10812

*HART: Efficient Visual Generation with Hybrid Autoregressive Transformer* (Haotian Tang, Yecheng Wu, Shang Yang, Enze Xie, Junsong Chen, Junyu Chen, Zhuoyang Zhang, Han Cai, Yao Lu, Song Han)

> We introduce Hybrid Autoregressive Transformer (HART), an autoregressive (AR) visual generation model capable of directly generating 1024x1024 images, rivaling diffusion models in image generation quality. Existing AR models face limitations due to the poor image reconstruction quality of their discrete tokenizers and the prohibitive training costs associated with generating 1024px images. To address these challenges, we present the hybrid tokenizer, which decomposes the continuous latents from the autoencoder into two components: discrete tokens representing the big picture and continuous tokens representing the residual components that cannot be represented by the discrete tokens. The discrete component is modeled by a scalable-resolution discrete AR model, while the continuous component is learned with a lightweight residual diffusion module with only 37M parameters. Compared with the discrete-only VAR tokenizer, our hybrid approach improves reconstruction FID from 2.11 to 0.30 on MJHQ-30K, leading to a 31% generation FID improvement from 7.85 to 5.38. HART also outperforms state-of-the-art diffusion models in both FID and CLIP score, with 4.5-7.7x higher throughput and 6.9-13.4x lower MACs. Our code is open sourced at https://github.com/mit-han-lab/hart.

VQ에서 Continuous Token을 디코딩 할 수 있게 만든 다음 Discrete Token과 Continuous Token의 잔차를 사용해 학습. Autoregressive Model 위에서 Diffusion을 올려 이 잔차를 학습시킨다는 아이디어입니다. 그나저나 Visual Autoregressive Model은 은근슬쩍 자리를 잡았군요. (https://arxiv.org/abs/2404.02905)

<english>
Allow VQ to decode continuous tokens, and train the model using residual between difference of discrete and continuous token. Add diffusion over autoregressive model, and let this diffusion model to learn this residuals. By the way, Visual Autoregressive Model got its position. (https://arxiv.org/abs/2404.02905)
</english>

#vq #autoregressive-model #diffusion

# Links

[[240403 Visual Autoregressive Modeling.md]]