https://arxiv.org/abs/2412.04468

*NVILA: Efficient Frontier Visual Language Models* (Zhijian Liu, Ligeng Zhu, Baifeng Shi, Zhuoyang Zhang, Yuming Lou, Shang Yang, Haocheng Xi, Shiyi Cao, Yuxian Gu, Dacheng Li, Xiuyu Li, Yunhao Fang, Yukang Chen, Cheng-Yu Hsieh, De-An Huang, An-Chieh Cheng, Vishwesh Nath, Jinyi Hu, Sifei Liu, Ranjay Krishna, Daguang Xu, Xiaolong Wang, Pavlo Molchanov, Jan Kautz, Hongxu Yin, Song Han, Yao Lu)

> Visual language models (VLMs) have made significant advances in accuracy in recent years. However, their efficiency has received much less attention. This paper introduces NVILA, a family of open VLMs designed to optimize both efficiency and accuracy. Building on top of VILA, we improve its model architecture by first scaling up the spatial and temporal resolutions, and then compressing visual tokens. This "scale-then-compress" approach enables NVILA to efficiently process high-resolution images and long videos. We also conduct a systematic investigation to enhance the efficiency of NVILA throughout its entire lifecycle, from training and fine-tuning to deployment. NVILA matches or surpasses the accuracy of many leading open and proprietary VLMs across a wide range of image and video benchmarks. At the same time, it reduces training costs by 4.5X, fine-tuning memory usage by 3.4X, pre-filling latency by 1.6-2.2X, and decoding latency by 1.2-2.8X. We will soon make our code and models available to facilitate reproducibility.

이미지와 비디오의 시간과 공간 해상도는 높이되 그에 따라 발생하는 토큰 수 증가를 공간축으로는 채널로 접어넣는 방법을, 시간축으로는 풀링을 사용해서 대응했네요.

<english>
Increase spatial and temporal resolution of image and video inputs, and deals with increasement in token length with folding spatial dimensions into channel dimensions, and applies pooling along with temporal dimensions.
</english>

#vision-language #multimodal #video-language 