https://arxiv.org/abs/2412.08821

*Large Concept Models: Language Modeling in a Sentence Representation Space* (The LCM team, Loïc Barrault, Paul-Ambroise Duquenne, Maha Elbayad, Artyom Kozhevnikov, Belen Alastruey, Pierre Andrews, Mariano Coria, Guillaume Couairon, Marta R. Costa-jussà, David Dale, Hady Elsahar, Kevin Heffernan, João Maria Janeiro, Tuan Tran, Christophe Ropers, Eduardo Sánchez, Robin San Roman, Alexandre Mourachko, Safiyyah Saleem, Holger Schwenk)

> LLMs have revolutionized the field of artificial intelligence and have emerged as the de-facto tool for many tasks. The current established technology of LLMs is to process input and generate output at the token level. This is in sharp contrast to humans who operate at multiple levels of abstraction, well beyond single words, to analyze information and to generate creative content. In this paper, we present an attempt at an architecture which operates on an explicit higher-level semantic representation, which we name a concept. Concepts are language- and modality-agnostic and represent a higher level idea or action in a flow. Hence, we build a "Large Concept Model". In this study, as proof of feasibility, we assume that a concept corresponds to a sentence, and use an existing sentence embedding space, SONAR, which supports up to 200 languages in both text and speech modalities. The Large Concept Model is trained to perform autoregressive sentence prediction in an embedding space. We explore multiple approaches, namely MSE regression, variants of diffusion-based generation, and models operating in a quantized SONAR space. These explorations are performed using 1.6B parameter models and training data in the order of 1.3T tokens. We then scale one architecture to a model size of 7B parameters and training data of about 2.7T tokens. We perform an experimental evaluation on several generative tasks, namely summarization and a new task of summary expansion. Finally, we show that our model exhibits impressive zero-shot generalization performance to many languages, outperforming existing LLMs of the same size. The training code of our models is freely available.

문장 임베딩을 개념으로 간주해 이 개념들의 시퀀스를 Autoregressive 생성하는 모델. Skip Thought Vector 같은 고전적인 아이디어가 떠오르네요. 문장 임베딩을 타겟한다는 것 자체가 많은 문제를 야기하겠지만요.

<english>
Autoregressive generate model of sequence of concepts considering sentence embeddings as a concept. It reminds me classical idea like Skip Thought Vectors. Targeting sentence embedding itself will cause a lot of problems, though.
</english>

#embedding #llm 