https://arxiv.org/abs/2412.13337

*Unveiling the Secret Recipe: A Guide For Supervised Fine-Tuning Small LLMs* (Aldo Pareja, Nikhil Shivakumar Nayak, Hao Wang, Krishnateja Killamsetty, Shivchander Sudalairaj, Wenlong Zhao, Seungwook Han, Abhishek Bhandwaldar, Guangxuan Xu, Kai Xu, Ligong Han, Luke Inglis, Akash Srivastava)

> The rise of large language models (LLMs) has created a significant disparity: industrial research labs with their computational resources, expert teams, and advanced infrastructures, can effectively fine-tune LLMs, while individual developers and small organizations face barriers due to limited resources. In this paper, we aim to bridge this gap by presenting a comprehensive study on supervised fine-tuning of LLMs using instruction-tuning datasets spanning diverse knowledge domains and skills. We focus on small-sized LLMs (3B to 7B parameters) for their cost-efficiency and accessibility. We explore various training configurations and strategies across four open-source pre-trained models. We provide detailed documentation of these configurations, revealing findings that challenge several common training practices, including hyperparameter recommendations from TULU and phased training recommended by Orca. Key insights from our work include: (i) larger batch sizes paired with lower learning rates lead to improved model performance on benchmarks such as MMLU, MTBench, and Open LLM Leaderboard; (ii) early-stage training dynamics, such as lower gradient norms and higher loss values, are strong indicators of better final model performance, enabling early termination of sub-optimal runs and significant computational savings; (iii) through a thorough exploration of hyperparameters like warmup steps and learning rate schedules, we provide guidance for practitioners and find that certain simplifications do not compromise performance; and (iv) we observed no significant difference in performance between phased and stacked training strategies, but stacked training is simpler and more sample efficient. With these findings holding robustly across datasets and models, we hope this study serves as a guide for practitioners fine-tuning small LLMs and promotes a more inclusive environment for LLM research.

SFT 과정에 대한 경험. 도메인을 다 섞어서 큰 배치 작은 LR로 학습하는 것이 좋더라는 결과군요.

<english>
Experience on SFT. They say that it is better to train with large batch and small LR, on mixed data domains.
</english>

#alignment 