https://arxiv.org/abs/2412.04332

*Liquid: Language Models are Scalable Multi-modal Generators* (Junfeng Wu, Yi Jiang, Chuofan Ma, Yuliang Liu, Hengshuang Zhao, Zehuan Yuan, Song Bai, Xiang Bai)

> We present Liquid, an auto-regressive generation paradigm that seamlessly integrates visual comprehension and generation by tokenizing images into discrete codes and learning these code embeddings alongside text tokens within a shared feature space for both vision and language. Unlike previous multimodal large language model (MLLM), Liquid achieves this integration using a single large language model (LLM), eliminating the need for external pretrained visual embeddings such as CLIP. For the first time, Liquid uncovers a scaling law that performance drop unavoidably brought by the unified training of visual and language tasks diminishes as the model size increases. Furthermore, the unified token space enables visual generation and comprehension tasks to mutually enhance each other, effectively removing the typical interference seen in earlier models. We show that existing LLMs can serve as strong foundations for Liquid, saving 100x in training costs while outperforming Chameleon in multimodal capabilities and maintaining language performance comparable to mainstream LLMs like LLAMA2. Liquid also outperforms models like SD v2.1 and SD-XL (FID of 5.47 on MJHQ-30K), excelling in both vision-language and text-only tasks. This work demonstrates that LLMs such as LLAMA3.2 and GEMMA2 are powerful multimodal generators, offering a scalable solution for enhancing both vision-language understanding and generation. The code and models will be released.

VQ 토큰을 그대로 입력으로 사용해 이미지 생성과 인식을 하려는 시도 하나 더. VQ가 워낙 빠르게 발전하고 있어서 이런 스타일의 Autoregressive 모델도 상황이 나아지지 않았나 싶습니다.

<english>
One more study on doing both image recognition and generation by directly using VQ tokens. As VQ is rapidly progressing, overall situation for these style of autoregressive model became much better.
</english>

#multimodal #autoregressive-model #image-generation 