https://arxiv.org/abs/2412.17256

*B-STaR: Monitoring and Balancing Exploration and Exploitation in Self-Taught Reasoners* (Weihao Zeng, Yuzhen Huang, Lulu Zhao, Yijun Wang, Zifei Shan, Junxian He)

> In the absence of extensive human-annotated data for complex reasoning tasks, self-improvement -- where models are trained on their own outputs -- has emerged as a primary method for enhancing performance. However, the critical factors underlying the mechanism of these iterative self-improving methods remain poorly understood, such as under what conditions self-improvement is effective, and what are the bottlenecks in the current iterations. In this work, we identify and propose methods to monitor two pivotal factors in this iterative process: (1) the model's ability to generate sufficiently diverse responses (exploration); and (2) the effectiveness of external rewards in distinguishing high-quality candidates from lower-quality ones (exploitation). Using mathematical reasoning as a case study, we begin with a quantitative analysis to track the dynamics of exploration and exploitation, discovering that a model's exploratory capabilities rapidly deteriorate over iterations, and the effectiveness of exploiting external rewards diminishes as well. Motivated by these findings, we introduce B-STaR, a Self-Taught Reasoning framework that autonomously adjusts configurations across iterations to Balance exploration and exploitation, thereby optimizing the self-improving effectiveness based on the current policy model and available rewards. Our experiments on mathematical reasoning, coding, and commonsense reasoning demonstrate that B-STaR not only enhances the model's exploratory capabilities throughout training but also achieves a more effective balance between exploration and exploitation, leading to superior performance.

Self Improvement 과정에서 다양한 샘플이 생성되는가, 그리고 좋은 샘플이 선택되는가의 균형 문제에 대한 탐구. Self Improvement 과정에서 다양성이 빠르게 감소한다는 것은 자주 제기되는 문제죠. (https://arxiv.org/abs/2412.02674) 이에 대해 다양성에 대한 지표를 만든 다음 그에 따라 샘플링 Temperature와 Reward Score Threshold를 설정하는 방법을 고안했네요.

여담이지만 Pass@32-1과 Reward@32-1이 다른 이유를 잘 모르겠네요.

<english>
The study on the problem of whether diverse samples are generated and good samples are selected during self improvement training. It is commonly noticed problem that diversity is rapidly reduced during self improvements  (https://arxiv.org/abs/2412.02674). For this problem the authors devised the method by first make a measure for diversity and adjusting sampling temperatures and reward score threshold.

By the way, I don't know why pass@32-1 and reward@32-1 is different.
</english>

#search #rl #self-improvment

# Links

[[241203 Mind the Gap.md]]