https://arxiv.org/abs/2412.14135

*Scaling of Search and Learning: A Roadmap to Reproduce o1 from Reinforcement Learning Perspective* (Zhiyuan Zeng, Qinyuan Cheng, Zhangyue Yin, Bo Wang, Shimin Li, Yunhua Zhou, Qipeng Guo, Xuanjing Huang, Xipeng Qiu)

> OpenAI o1 represents a significant milestone in Artificial Inteiligence, which achieves expert-level performances on many challanging tasks that require strong reasoning ability.OpenAI has claimed that the main techinique behinds o1 is the reinforcement learining. Recent works use alternative approaches like knowledge distillation to imitate o1's reasoning style, but their effectiveness is limited by the capability ceiling of the teacher model. Therefore, this paper analyzes the roadmap to achieving o1 from the perspective of reinforcement learning, focusing on four key components: policy initialization, reward design, search, and learning. Policy initialization enables models to develop human-like reasoning behaviors, equipping them with the ability to effectively explore solution spaces for complex problems. Reward design provides dense and effective signals via reward shaping or reward modeling, which is the guidance for both search and learning. Search plays a crucial role in generating high-quality solutions during both training and testing phases, which can produce better solutions with more computation. Learning utilizes the data generated by search for improving policy, which can achieve the better performance with more parameters and more searched data. Existing open-source projects that attempt to reproduce o1 can be seem as a part or a variant of our roadmap. Collectively, these components underscore how learning and search drive o1's advancement, making meaningful contributions to the development of LLM.

o1의 방법을 추정하는 시도도 이제 하나의 장르군요. 최근 재미있게 읽은 글도 하나 소개합니다. (https://www.interconnects.ai/p/openais-o1-using-search-was-a-psyop)

<english>
It became a genre that guessing the method for building o1. I also want to introduce one post that I have red recently and found interesting. (https://www.interconnects.ai/p/openais-o1-using-search-was-a-psyop)
</english>

#reasoning #review 